 Hey guys, just on the chat that the slides are invisible in Canvas yet. So in the next minute while we're waiting for people to trigger and I'll post those. Okay. Let's get started. Can somebody give me a thumbs up if you can hear me? Okay. Thank you. Slides are posted on Canvas. Now. Sorry about that thing for pointing it out to me. As I said in the announcement that I sent out this morning, it's a little bit of a hectic week for me. Coded closure at preschool, toddler, loose in my house for the next couple of weeks. So I apologize for generally just being behind on responding to things. So I appreciate you bearing with me on that. Okay, so a few things I wanted to say. So the quiz, it's posted now. It's due next Monday before class. And so this is the pattern that things are, the way things are going to go is the quiz is going to be posted sometimes Monday, sometimes it won't be until Monday night, depending on how much editing and stuff we need to do. And then do a little less than a week from that Monday. So before class the following Monday. And it's going to cover material from the previous week. This week. It's a little bit shorter than normal because we only had two days of content last week. So there's nine questions and multiple choice questions. You'll have 20 minutes. The length will adjust. The length and time that you're given will just, depending on how many quiz questions there are. The goal is for me to give you more time than necessary if you're prepared for the quiz, but not enough time to look about every answer if you are totally unfamiliar with the material. And you get one attempt, so it's a quiz. Any questions about that? So the material on the quiz will be from week one. So that's lecture, Wednesdays lecture, and Friday's lecture. Now the toddler's not loose from the preschool. Things guys. Okay. So ya, you should be fine to take the quiz today. There's not, there's no material on the quiz that we're gonna cover today. Okay? And then hopefully you've chosen your participation path tonight or maybe tomorrow as soon as I can get to it, I'm going to create a column on Canvas showing what option we have recorded for you. And then just went when I post that, I'll announce it and ask you to just check out the column and make sure that your participation is recorded as you wanted it to be. And let us know immediately if you need us to make any changes. Anything else? Any other logistical questions before we get started? Asynchronous participation forums starts today. So the TAs will create Canvas quiz based on pull questions from today and post it as soon as they can on canvas after class. I have a question for those who chose the synchronous option, that Canvas class, when it'll come up as participation. We don't have to take it, but that won't affect anything on Canvas for us, right? No. Yeah. Wouldn't affect anything on Canvas for you? It's a good question, actually. Yeah. So the weight so it won't show up the way it should work is it won't even show up for you. So I will only show up for people that opted into the asynchronous. But thank you for reminding me because I do need to talk to you about how to set that up. Will there be questions from the reading know, so there's not going to be any questions directly from the reading. I mean, it, it, the class worrying or relied heavily. But you should not have to do the reading in order to do well on the quiz, assuming you understood the lecture material. Okay, alright. So last and I got a lot of questions. I sort of breezed over this distinction, mainly because it's not really the point in the class that we talk in depth about this and we will talk in depth about long-term memory and this distinction between explicit and implicit memory. But I had a lot of questions after class. And so I, Because I introduce this topic now, I just want to make sure that you do understand the general distinction. Again, we'll do a more in-depth treatment of this and several weeks. But the general difference between explicit and implicit memory is that explicit memory is also called declarative memory. Its memories that we can articulate or have conscious awareness of, as opposed to implicit or non declarative memory. And these are sort of like skills, procedures, classical conditioning, things that kind of we do automatically based on learning, but we can't count, consciously articulate that learning. So try this question just to make sure we're all on board with this. Again, this isn't really the content for this week. I just won because I introduced the term. I want to make sure I didn't confuse anyone. I click on it, you have it. Okay, so most people saying B, or 62% of people saying B and B is the correct answer. I'm just kinda walk through these. So explicit memory is going to be memories for episodes in our life. Things that we've experienced. If I tell you about my birthday party last year, that's called an episodic memory and actual event that happened. Explicit memory is also memories for things like facts are called semantic memories. So knowledge that mine a, my middle name is Elon, is an example of a semantic memory. It's, I can declare it, I can articulate that memory. I know that I know that memory. In that case in the case of my middle name being Ellen, I don't it's not episodic. I don't remember. You know, exactly when I first learn that, but it's, it's something I can verbalize. And so those are instances of explicit memory and these other things, knowing how to ride a bike. That is a procedural memory, that's a type of implicit memory. You probably can't articulate exactly the steps and balance that you take to ride a bike. You might go to say you put your hands him a handlebar, you pedal the petals, but the actual mechanism for riding the bike is something that you probably can't articulate every little muscle movement involved. You can be off a bike for years and jump on a bike and be able to ride a bike again. You do it automatically and the process isn't, it's beyond your ability to articulate. Another form of implicit memory is classical conditioning. So salivating to the sound of a bell, it's an automatic process. Even if you're not consciously aware that you have an association. When if you have repeatedly been given food right after a bell sounds, you implicitly u4 form this connection between those two stimuli and salivate to that thing automatically. So that's classical conditioning, that's a form of implicit learning. There might be instances where you do, you are consciously aware of that association. But the actual Association itself is an implicit connection. Being faster to respond to the word mouse after you've been shown the word cat. So cat and mouse are associated in our semantic network. And so this term priming means that if you're, you're exposed one concept, the other concept is activated and you're going to be faster to respond to that. This happens below conscious awareness. It's an implicit learning thing. So a, C and D are all implicit. And you could just think of it as something that is kind of going on implicitly below your conscious awareness. As opposed to something like knowing your dog's name is banjo, something you can articulate in verbalize or declare? Somebody saying riding bike is basically muscle memory. Yeah, so it's called procedural memory. Actually, the actual term is procedural memory. But yes, it's I the idea of muscle memory. Okay. So oh, I don't I don't totally understand your question. But yeah, sorry. It's not worded. Well, I was just asking So is well, if we try to explain to someone very much in detail how we're riding the bike. Maybe do you think is just something that we kind of make up to? I don't know. Maybe compensate for us not being to articulate it. Well, yeah. I mean, I think that there's there's perhaps there are other steps of the process that are explicit dogs, right? You know, you sit on the sea, you pedal the pedals, you know, you hold the handlebars. Um, so that is all explicit knowledge and you can communicate that to somebody. There's aspects of it. Certain things that are, that our body is doing that will be on, that it's beyond our awareness, but at the same time. But the example I gave, I think it was after class to like typing on a keyboard at some point that procedure is explicit. You're in a typing class learning which finger is supposed to type the a and the x. And you could articulate that. But at some point, you transition away from that explicit knowledge to an implicit automatic behavior. And again, we'll talk more about this when we get to this content, I just mainly want you to understand that this term implicit or non declarative memory at this point. So retrieval of information from long-term memory through some sort of performance rather than explicit conscious recall or recognition. So again, things like opera and classical conditioning, which is what we're going to be talking about in these first couple of weeks. And feel free to hang it after class if you have more questions about this. And so I talked about this, the biological backdrop for learning we're going to talk about, I'll continue talking about the biological backdrop for learning. Today we're gonna talk the classical operant, conditioning, observational learning, and statistical learning. And these are all under the umbrella of implicit non declarative memory. And as I said, less than learning is challenging. There's many different possible association, the things about the world that we can learn. I gave the example of the operon how I thought it was a small mustache because that was the first pairing that I saw. And so we have built in biases that we're born with that make learning certain things easier. Learning things that are going to have a survival advantage for us. And then from those basic inborn biases, we can then bootstrapped from there and actual or actually learn from experience. Learn by experiencing the world. And so human babies have simple reflexes. So there's a lot of them. Some of them are a startle response, the rooting reflex, which is like a suckling response. Grip reflex. If you put your finger at the baby's handle, grip your finger. Orienting response business. If if there's a change in the environment that is not as quick, cause startle response, but there's still a change, a more subtle change in the environment and there's an orienting response. On some examples, there's more startle response. The moral response is what's called the rooting reflex. If you stroke a baby's cheap, it'll turn and suckled inborn behavior to feed itself. And so HST, human, human babies have these reflexes. Things that are born with to aid their immediate survival, being able to feed themselves, for example. And then beginning to interact physically with the world, the gripping reflex. And then from these basic abilities that are inborn, We can then get input from the world and burn and build on these behaviors. And then the learning about the world replaces these reflexes and these reflexes go away. In animals. These are very similar to reflexes in the sense that there are automatic inborn behaviors. They're different from reflexes or they're called something different than reflexes just because It's a, it's a pattern of behavior. So there's many different links in this chain of behavior. And what fixed action patterns are is this complex behavior that isn't inborn ability of some animals and they don't have to learn it and they don't have to be exposed to another con-specific in order to observe or learn this behavior. So for example, this is the Taylor bird and the tailor bird is born with the ability to make these really complicated woven. So again, the Taleb or never had to see another bird do this or Lucas ability. And another thing about a fixed action pattern is that it's fixed action patterns. So if once the stimulus, stimulus triggers this behaviors and belief in the case of Taylor bird, the sequence of events runs to completion. So if you were to, this is the graylag goose and its aim collecting behavior. So I'll show you the video and then all I'm going to say. So the graylag goose has this fixed action pattern when it sees this, this object. And this object is called a releaser. It's an object that triggers this fixed action pattern in that rolling behavior was sequence isn't a fixed action pattern. You saw that it wasn't an egg that this greylag goose was responding to. It was, it just has to fall within a category that triggers that response. And if you were to remove the egg. Halfway through the fixed action pattern, halfway through that sequence. The graylag goose wouldn't be bothered by that and we'll just continue to run its chain of events. This chain of events, even though the stimulus has now gone, once the action pattern is triggered, it runs to completion essentially. And some other examples of fixed action patterns are actually this is really, this is an example of a fixed action pattern, but also this example of a supernormal stimulus. So the male stickleback fish, during mating season, the males developed this red color and other males will attack based on that red color. So the fixed action pattern is attacking based on the red color of compet, competing males. And the releaser is the red color on the stickleback fish. But in some cases, the stronger that releaser is, the more likely it is to trigger the behaviour. So for example, this is what's called supernormal stimulus. So what these researchers did is they have these normal size fish and then they took buoys that were bigger and differently shaped. Then the actual male stickleback and they painted the underside bright red. And so it was, it didn't really mimic the male stickleback, but it was a more exaggerated version of the quality that triggered the fixed action pattern on a more exaggerated version of the releaser. And that's what's called a supernormal stimulus. So these male sticklebacks rather than attacking the other males, now a tap these buoys that had this super normal releaser. And so these fixed action patterns are really rigid there built-in. There's no learning involved. And they can be triggered by releasers. And when an object is a more extreme version of the releaser in nature, It's called a supernormal stimulus. And the animal will respond to the super normal stimulus preferentially over the natural stimulus. Another example, just because I think these are kind of fun, is what are called brood parasites. And so a lot of birds will choose to sit on eggs that are larger. So you have a species natural smaller eg. The bird will prefer to sit on a larger egg, even if it's not an aid for its species, it's just the larger egg acts as a supernormal stimulus, triggers that behavior. And so brood parasites will actually, who have bigger eggs, will lay their eggs in SPC, other species nests and then go off and do their own thing while the other species is triggered by this supernormal stimulus and take the time to hatch this other species eggs. And one video because it's really fun. I showed this in. I want, I want a class, but it's such a cool video that I have to show it again just in case you didn't take that class. You'll stadium jewel beetle. The males mission in life is simple. Find a female and mate with her. Uhm. Male jewel beetles are always on the lookout for attractive females like this fine specimen. But what makes her irresistible? That's not too complicated. She's gotta be Bake. She's gotta be orange. And she has got to be covered in dimples given by all three. And she is just gorgeous. It sex on six legs. What's all this got to do with beer? In Australia? A beer bottle Mike, this is known as a stubby, and believe it or not, at nearly wiped out the jewel beetle. To this quest, the Gmail, all his sexual fantasies come true when he finds a discarded studying. It certainly bag. It's the right color and it's got dimples. It's everything that a male into a frenzy. Such a beauty, it doesn't of course, go unnoticed. For long. It's covered and rapid males and they're not keen to move elsewhere. Something had to be done. The genuine females were just sitting around unnoticed, try as they might like, couldn't compete. Mr. Wright had taken to the bottle. Okay. I really enjoyed comments and chat. Alright, so can anyone think of something that they might classify as a supernormal stimulus for humans. Fast food commercials, maybe. Fast food. Yeah, absolutely. Why? Well, it they, at least in commercials, it gets very exaggerated, big QC, and regular food doesn't really look like that. So they kind of think about it more maybe. Yeah, absolutely. So the visual image for sure. But also just junk food in general, right? Because I have an image of this. Junk food in general, right? We're evolve to want, to seek out glucose and carbohydrates. These are things that were harder for us to get in our evolutionary environment. And so we're drawn to these things and it's healthy for us to eat sugar in evolutionary times to a certain degree, the amount we're able to get in our environment. But now this stuff is everywhere. And so x sort of as a supernormal stimulus in that even beyond, you know, sugar content, beyond what we would find in the natural environment is really attractive to us, even beyond it being beneficial to our health. But it's triggering that. That behavior. So another one. Any other ideas? I mean, you could pick like any type of advertising, anything that's trying to entice you to sell is going to be like offering you like a, a conscious, like a reason to buy a product, but also a subconscious. I mean, you could say like going back to food like the yellow, red, blue, and McDonalds Burger King. Like colors that make you hungry. I mean, you could go like anything and anything that's sold is has like this subliminal. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. So they're sort of distinctions here like Yeah, there's definitely, on the one hand, things that are going to attract IS a subconsciously or implicitly. And then certain things that are more directly analogous to the supernormal stimulus. And a direct analogy to the supernormal stimulus idea being something that elicits one response in a natural environment. But then when you take that thing that nationally listens that response and puts it on steroids. We don't want the natural thing. We want the thing that is an exaggerated version of that natural thing. So fast food, as far as like glucose content, we want sweet food. This is too sweet for us to be healthy, but it's still draws us. Another classic example of a supernormal stimulus for humans is very large breasts and a very thin waist. To some degree in nature. Waist to hip ratio and breast size was and, and the ratio between them was an indicator of health. But only to a point. Beyond that point it's no longer a health indicator. But these unnatural exaggerated versions are still the attention capturing thing, even though in nature they don't really exist. But they trigger that as a supernormal stimulus. Ok, so what I was just talking about were things that are not learned. They're just inborn. So simple reflex is fixed action patterns. Fixed action patterns that are triggered by releasers and one former releasers, a supernormal stimulus and exaggerated version. So that's all stuff that is things that help, behaviors that help us survive it or inborn not learned. Critical periods now are not necessarily their periods in, in development that we're learning a particular behavior is easiest or needed. So There's just a favorable time in our development to learn a particular thing. So learning is involved, but there's this biological preparedness for learning that thing. And so some examples are imprinting. So ducklings for examples, many birds will think, I don't wanna say think the first thing they see as their parents because who knows what they're thinking. But they'll imprint too or follow the first moving object that day encounter. Just like a young duckling follows, it's usually follows its mother nature. If the first moving thing it sees is. In some cases are human, they share in both. It'll imprint on to you that say, here's a video of some ducklings imprinted. The first moving thing they saw was this dog and the imprinted on me. So the point here is that two things have to happen. The moving object has to be the duckling has to be exposed to the moving thing within a certain period after birth. And it has to, it has to have as input, but it also has to happen during a certain period of time. Other examples are Birdsong and human language learning. So with birds on, for example, the bird species has to be exposed to birdsong within a certain period for it to develop the song of its species. And for burns, it has to be, for most birds, it has to be its species song. So two things have to happen. It has to be, has to be input. The input is a very specific input, the input of its own species on and it has to happen within a certain window. Pass that went No, it won't learn the song. Human language learning. Humans have to be exposed to language within a certain early period in life for them to truly become a native speaker and low language. Genie is a clearly, we can study this more birdsong because we can take a bird and not expose it to it's on for some period and see if it ever can learn the song and find out, No, it can't after 50 or 90 days or whatever. We can do that with humans. We can't do experiments. Gd as a case study. But you will probably learn more about in a, in a language class. But essentially She was, a Neglected Child, was locked in a shed from a very early age by Herb use her father, and she wasn't found until she was like 13 years old. She had never been exposed to language and essentially never really learn language. So social workers and linguists work worked with her when she was found and the shattered 13. And she was able to learn something, she was able to learn some nonverbal communications. She was able to learn some nouns and simple commands, but she never really grasped syntax and grammar or like a native speaker, suggesting that. There's this critical period. We need to be exposed to language. If some, some language. And if we're not, we can't really fully all the aspects of language. Caution about that. Yeah. Answered. Well, let's say we're talking about like a native language where the child learns it within the first year, whatever knots like that critical period. But then beyond NIH SDK, learning a second language, do you need eat that first languished artists were able to try a second language or if they haven't learned anything at first and it will work thing. So that's just a kind of a hard thing to test. But you're learning a second language later in life is really, really difficult. Most people that try to learn a second language past a certain point never become as fluid as a native speaker. I think what you're getting at is if you are exposed to language at some point, does that give you some sort of template to then learn second languages as opposed to if you never learn language, you don't have that sort of framework to then last, I'm gonna yes, I think that is true. Sean, do you have anything to add to that? You're the language person with us, us, pretty good. Alright? Alright. So biological preparedness is basically this idea. It's another constraint that guide learning. So just like a critical period is essential for you need the input. And you need it to interact with the biology. And those two things are necessary and it has to happen in a certain time window. Related idea is this idea of biological preparedness. So certain associations are gonna be learned easier than other associations. For example. We just have a general thing is that we approach things that we want or desire and we physically avoid or move away from things that we and dislike. And so this approach, avoid behavior, is going to dictate the types of things that we can learn. So you can, you can teach an animal to press a lever, that sort of approach behavior to get food to get rewarded. But you can't teach an animal, animal to runaway in order to get food. So trying to teach a rat to runaway and then come back to a location to get food is going to be a lot harder because the natural Association and is a, a's approach what you want, avoid what you don't like. So you could teach a rat to run away from something that's going to rocket. Just as one example of this, of how biological preparedness works, it's much easier to train an approach behavior with a reward than it is to reward. A retreat behaviour and bullying behavior. And then there's also certain cue consequence combinations that are going to be easier to learn than others. And so I think this is maybe intuitive. A little bit intuitive. So let's, I'm going to put you in a breakout room to talk about this. I have the image of this slide on canvas called breakout room Activity one. So you can look at it while you're discussing if somebody wants to just either just, just pull that up or I think in breakout rooms, one person could share their screen. So just talk about this question for a couple of minutes. Let me open the rooms. Yeah. Oh, I'm realizing I probably should explain this slide a little bit more. All the information is there, but I could walk them through it. Oh, they're smart. They've already figured out. Wow. Wow. Waiting for the breakout rooms and closings like when you're really hungry and you're like waiting for a microwave radio and like the last ten seconds is what takes forever. It's not possible for us to Screenshare, By the way. Thank you for letting me know. I appreciate that. Okay. So I realize that I probably should have walked through this slide before sending you off, but you guys are smart and so hopefully you figured it out. So essentially what this, this is showing is there's this experiment where they take a rat and there's two different consequences, nausea and pain. And there's two different cues are things that these consequences are paired way. So the water might be sweet and the sweet water might lead to nausea or it might lead to pain. And the water might be accompanied by a click instead of sweetness and might lead to nausea and it might lead to pain. And so the question is, which pairing, which Q consequence pairing Do you think the animal learns and association with? And which ones do you guessed it just does not ever learn that association. Anybody have a guess? I guess that it would acquire another version with the click and the shock. Mostly like Pavlov's dog thing, where if it hears something, it tends to associate it with that. Like think she learned how to use them. And I think this really quickly, let me say, thank you to learn the click Nash repair. I don't think so. I think it's more they're better from what? I think everyone I think that they paint is like a better motivator for animals than like, oh, I feel a little sick. But what about the sweetness, knowledge a pair so that they drink water that sweet and then that's followed by knowledge or do you think they'll learn that association? No, I think that's actually the the one where they don't acquire it. Yeah. Because I think like animals, like I've from what I from my dogs, a theme like even if they feel thick, after they eat something, they'll still eat it. They don't care. I'm hungry. That's funny. I have a different idea, professor. Oh, I think for sweetness and nausea, I think the rat will associate nausea with whatever at eight an hour prior because it knows its own like digestive clock system. So if it immediately drink sweet water and feels nauseous, it's not going to think that it's the water. It'll probably be thinking it's something else. But you do think it will eventually learn this relationship. Yes. If if the if it gets nauseous up an hour later, I think it learns the relationship. You're saying that there might be a particular timeframe issue, but given the right timeframe, it'll learn the sweetness nausea association. And so Enrique was right with the pane click being learned and you nail that with the knowledge and sweetness being learns who beams and these two cells, cells, there is an aversion that is acquired. So when you pair something, a flavor, and then the consequence is nausea, the animal learns that when a click is paired with the shock, the animal learns that. But the animal doesn't learn or doesn't require version in these conditions. So if you pair, if a drink sweet water and then it gets shocked, it doesn't acquire association with the shock and the sweetness. And if you pair click, I'm sorry, yet you am I click anoxia. Don't learn that. So if there's a click and then the animal experiences nausea a little while later it doesn't associate those things. And so these are examples of biological preparedness and this idea that learning some connections are easier, other connections. Does anybody want to venture a guess as to why this would be reflected in sort of an evolutionary history of surviving in nature. I guess. Oh, does the other person want to go? Not go ahead. Okay. My guess would be the yacht poison someone sudden and chat sweetness and nausea kind of go together because nausea is something from, I mean, I guess you could injustice through smell but like generally you're ingesting like something. You're eating something and then later you're going to be nauseous so that it that way or that association is a useful thing to learn. It exists in the environment naturally. And so it's a pair and it's a pair that is useful for us to learn to survive, to avoid plants that make us sick and then convert. Oh yeah. The I don't think there's anything in nature, I guess other than like a lightning strike itself that like you'd click and then you'd get shocked. And what about sounds in general though? Yeah, exactly. You're not you're not going to get nauseous from hearing a sound and you're not going to get shocked from eating something and sounds and general signal like a predator or something moving towards you. So if you feel pain after hearing a sound, something probably just attacked you? Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. So that's sort of a slide sort of represents what you just said. That yeah, something like a sound like a rattle snake has a rattler, something like that. There's some sort of predator in the environment. Some sort of sound is associated, repaid. Those things happen in the environment being nauseous after eating a noxious plant. It's something that exists. So things that mimic association, that mimics something you'd encounter. A pair that we encounter in real life. Or things that are, that will give us a survival advantage or are easier to learn than just who. It's not just randomly pairing any two things. We'll learn that association with enough for some things but enough pairing. We can eventually learned associations. But some pairs, not flavor and nausea, are gonna be way easier to learn. Sound and shock is going to be way easier to learn because those things are found more naturally as pairs in the environment. Okay? I think it's 248, so we'll just end here. And feel free to stick around and ask any questions or comments and quizzes posted due in a week. The Commission in the wild assignment is posted again, not do till Friday, but basically just any observation in your normal life that relates in some way to class content. It can be a video you saw. It could be a podcast, even it could be a just some thought you had in relation to an experience to be creative. Anything that in your normal I feel like, oh, this reminds me of what I will indeed for this reason, explain why and post it and then hurt the ones that you really like for extra credit opportunities. Thank you, Professor. Thank you. Thank you. I have a quick question. When do we need to have zap setup? You need does. So the first assignment is due on Friday. Okay. No. So habit for them? Yeah. Yeah. Alright. You had it before? Yeah. Yeah. And I think that the I for somebody who did the lab. How long did it take? I live. Does that mean the first zaps thing? Yeah. Yeah. The first apps, it's like maybe 20 minutes, is a really quick with its implicit tells us a bunch of selecting as fast as you can see if you have a bias. Cool. Yes. All right. And as the Padlet also due Friday? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. With the Padlet, is that just AS posting on there or is that going to be something that changes over time? There'll be a new one posted each week, but this will be the general assignment. So if we've already done if we already put the About Me thing there that were good for that? No. So the About Me was last week and this week is a new one. Any observation that you have? So it'll be a new post this week. Okay. So isn't the same link, right? No, it's a new link. Should be on Canvas. Site that the cognition in the wild portion. Thank you. I'm just wondering. So I'm pretty sure those Australia about to zap we should cut off this week, like the first ones due Friday. Okay. Thank you. Sir. So like for the foot pad up, I'd just like you said before, like cautiousness, Can I still doing the last week up I lead because I don't worry about the first from the first minute is really I'm gonna give everybody credit for that one. It was really just a trial to I'd never used Padlet and a classical For I wanted everybody including myself and the TAs kinda get used to it. So it's really just post like an introduction of yourself. What we learned is that you do need to have a Padlet account. It will ask you for your to enter your name. And so you need to have your name that's associated with this class and your e-mail associated with this cluster UCSD email, a Padlet accounts, and then use that account to make your posts it's free. It's just a matter of like filling out that sign-up form or whatever. And that's because it generates a CSV file that links to that email address. And so that's how we can give you credit. That's readily login photo pilot, like I got a login asked me to foster the password is banjo, it should be in the link title on Canvas or the password for everything in this class, it's going to be banjo, capital B exclamation point. April. Thank you for it. I have a question for the participation. Is it possible for them to be like a hybrid setup? So I mean, there's kind of a lot of things going on in the no night show like just because up till the 20th or so. Just like if we can, like if we could try to make it, but you can still do the producer synchronous, I mean, doesn't have a stressful time that the best thing to do in that situation is just sign up for asynchronous. And so you're saying that you want to do synchronous. You're saying you want to do synchronous. But for the next couple weeks, you're going to need to do asynchronous us? Yeah. Just the other day. Yes. These are what I would recommend if you if what I would recommend is is in generals to just sign up for asynchronous, then you can come to class as much as you want. But you know that even if you don't make it to class, you can always do the asynchronous option. If you signed up for synchronous. But want to do asynchronous until the 28th. That's fine. Just send me an email like kind of explaining the situation and we can make an exception and add you to the asynchronous. The other option is you can just switch totally to asynchronous. You can still come to class murdered want, but you kinda always have it in the bag that you can do the asynchronous option. So up to you. So then if I had to come to class omega two plus that, I don't have to do the quiz, Sir, do this baffling thing. It's just too much for us to keep track of. Like if you switch between phases, it has to keep track of. So basically, you're in a stream. You're either doing asynchronous or you're doing the in-class participation, that's where you're getting participation credit. But that doesn't mean you can't conduct Watson still participate. It just means on the day you come to class and participate, you're just going to also need to do, fill out the questions quickly and in the online quiz. It basically means, but that's the source of your participation, your credit. Does that make sense? Yeah. It makes sense. Okay. I mean, yeah, I'll suddenly looking okay. Thank you. Good question. When we have the asynchronous participation quizzes within an hour after class. Okay. Awesome. Thank you. Yester. Professor, I have a question just regarding machine, regarding the lessons. So is they the symbol reflects and also the fix Pat, action packed tight ends are included in the backdrop. Learning that biological backdrop to learn ideological, Yeah, yeah, so there's things that don't require learning, but they help morning. Okay. Yeah. Enqueue. Sure. Can I ask a question here? I missed the very it's like participation question and there's only one link out to the one today. Yeah. Yeah. And it was like really early into this National make five minutes in any way I can make it up back here. Click into this pole. Will get arrogant. And I thank you. All right. I have office hours on Wednesday. And if there's no other questions, I have a question. Yeah. So I was wondering if like is there any way to know that, that we missed like so we can miss five synchronous like lectures, right? Yes. If your income stream, Yeah. Well, we have to keep track ourselves are like, well, there'd be no acres. We will post the participation once a week or roughly once a week, once every two weeks. So you can go back and see how many you've missed. Okay, cool. And you, you're welcome. Other quick question. So does asynchronous quiz have a time limit on it within 48 hours of when it's posted. Duration. So like while the quizzes on, if I click into the quiz, can I leave it and go back to my do I have to just finish it and you can leave it in the vector. Why don't you turn to the participation rate? Yeah, that would be on the actual place. Yeah, the participation quiz, you should be able to write.