 Hello everyone. Really blurry. Few things. One, I'm going to drop in and chat. A couple links that some people, old state after class, I'm really interested in the blue and black gold and white dress phenomenon. And I promise that I would get a couple resources. Whoops. Trying to find the links. Hang on 1 second. I'm going to go well, I'm pulling these up. Are there any logistical questions? I can answer? Is there any update on band drum? Yes, there is. He was found he was Ritter who is thank you for asking. He was picked up on are dropped off on Monday to the shelter. I have no idea what he did. In the meantime, obviously like he was gone for a couple days, a couple nights. But yet he was he's fine. And very happy about that. Thank you for asking our rates. Yeah, bandwidth guy adventure. He said he took himself and his own banjo adventure. Yeah, he was super looked super exhausted and he was also thinner, too crazy for two days, but he's only like a ten pound operate. So he got a lot of treats and a lot of love, lust 24 hours. Okay. So today we're going to keep talking about attention. We've made it to module for sustaining behavior and selecting appropriate actions as a function of attention. And so this is sort of the last pillar of attention to talk about. And I think these are sort of the features that we really think of when we use the term attention kinda, colloquially. And so last time I asked you, can you think of a time that you felt you were able to successfully divide attention or multitask. And can you think of a time that this failed? And we sort of stopped class at that point, we didn't really talk about this. So any examples of when you are in or not able to divide attention. Any theories about when this might be a successful thing and why it might not be as a classical thing. Or gabriel, Sorry. Yeah. So when I was trying to read some texts for another class, I decided to do it in the library. But then the big catch was that I was listening to music and the music lyrics. And what ended up happening was that sometimes when I was reading, I would fill in words that weren't on the text. And so integrating. So I spent more time reading than I should have. Yeah. Yeah, that was a problem with which is why like work in house now we got office in the garage. But my husband listens to music and he's sort of on calls to and so like sometimes he can't find his headphones and so he, he likes to wasn't music. Even music with lyrics doesn't bother him. And I just like I could have, like classical music or something or lyric was music without lyrics just distract me. It's individual differences to it. That's a perfect example of, yeah, you have and you have a hypothesis about why things interact from previous classes. I believe it has to deal with the fact that parts of our brain are hard-wired to do one thing over another. And sometimes they overlap. Yeah, I think the key is that they're both kind of verbal tasks. You're trying to do something that involves words, lyrics, and us on other observations. So I ride a bike during class, like I am right now. Though. I kind of monitor, you know, the gauges here and whatever poles and calories burned it if it's a reading of how many calories I'm burning. But I guess what I would say to that is that it's kind of a different it's a different kind of attention. Perhaps, you know, so I'm able to pay attention to, you know, this modality of hearing and, and reading, but also, you know. My legs churning and not follow. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So we know how much of that is actually attention though. So that's just like a Unconscious secondary type of Jennifer pension. Right. So maybe when you were first learning to ride a bike, then maybe it would interfere more than being an expert at some sort of thing because yes, becomes more of an implicit thing. Yeah, that's a great example. And and whether it is or isn't detention, it's still, you're able to do these two tasks at the same time. I'm really liking this idea. I wonder, I wonder if would be super weird, if I was like teaching and biking at the same time, I had a professor last quarter that taught the whole class standing up. And he really, you guys put his computer up on a shelf or something and then aced around room? Yeah. Yeah. How how much of that kind of passive exercise, walking around campus are going to work or doing whatever. You don't. I mean, you know, Dewey. So yeah. Yeah. And also just I feel like it almost it, we're not going to touch on this in this lecture unfortunately. But there is also something about having that sometimes when you're having to listen to a lecture or something like that, that's going to require the sustained attention. Actually having a physical thing to do at the same time, it's actually helpful more than distracting. Tina. This reminds me of something we learned about the first few lectures, a mosaic. Two types of learning. One was like recalling something and the other one was a, something that automatically happens with riding a bicycle or say, yeah, yeah, yeah, I think that was what was sort of alluding to is that that difference between explicit and implicit is hiding abide actually. Is he actually dividing attention by riding the bike? Because the bike is something that has become more of this implicit automatic thing that doesn't require the same kind of attention. Unless I think, thank he can ride a bike and also learn. So the more you'll get used to something like when it because implicit then you can pay attention to other things too. Yeah, absolutely. And we're going to talk about that, but the, the novelty of the task, how novel it is going to have an influence. And I think the biking versus class wasn't into class example. It kinda heads on both of those things. One, there's, there's not novelty associated with the riding the bike anymore. It's become so practiced. And then the other thing is that it's a totally different domain, right? It's a motor physical domain versus yeah. I saw another here, mega site building off of that. I'm going to give I multitask skiing. Or you only thinking about more than one explicit task are already thinking more in terms of a combination of explicit and implicit tests. Really meant explicit tasks. But, but not, not, I mean, not necessary, not necessarily as really just kinda trying to start generating ideas of sort of like. What are things you do at the same time, burs was not sort of as an introduction to some of the the breakdown. And I'm going to give a like when things interfere and when things don't. And I think and we'll get into that in a second. Yana did yoga comment. Yeah, I realized like a weird thing related to the example with getting distracted by Music with lyrics. So for my example, I, so that I get, I'm completely fine when doing homework while someone is talking on a phone in a language that I do not know like in Hindi. If I will just filter it out perfectly, but if it's English or Russian, I will, I will immediately get irritated and I will there's no way I'll be able to focus. But then we had you, you showed us one of the experiments about trying to pick up certain language patterns in a made-up language where there's like a certain structure, the words that we can tell if there's something, it's a part of the language or not. You have a transitional probability, the sovereign study. Yeah, so I thought it was interesting. I got, why don't I get distracted in another language, even though I'm still kind of peaking up the structure and I can tell that where we're kind of stop and and and stuff like that. I don't know. I don't know if Shawn is here, he might have a more concrete answer to that. My guess would be that it might be distracting you to some degree. It's just not the same to the same degree as when you have a language that you understand, right? So there's so much more processing that you're doing. Rain, snow. Wow. Huh? That's yeah. Don't smoke in this building, please. At ID, right? Yeah, hi, sorry about the listening to music thing. I think it's interesting, at least this is for me out of others, but I'm listening to music that has lyrics and I'm trying to read, I find not very difficult. But if I'm doing homework like a math problem. So it's a different type of thing that doesn't have the lyrics don't bother me because I'm not sure if I'm putting two or yeah, that's a great observation. If I'm putting together like PowerPoint slides and an operating the language part together. I'm just like we're doing the visual part of it. I can totally was another music with lyrics. And this is touching on that what's called glucose for all states. Yeah. So speaking of language, distracting language. This is touching on this difference between domain general and domain specific resources. And this, this observation that if you're trying to do two tasks that are very similar to each other, like language processing tasks, they're gonna interfere a lot compared to if you're doing something like more visual and someday more auditory language based, there's going to be less interference. There. And so I think you guys hit on those two key divisions here. So divided attention is this term where you are splitting your focus between multiple tasks or multiple inputs. And you can successfully divide attention. When we're going back to that, that Load theory of attention, you have his bucket that is, can be filleds and you have so much room in your bucket. If you have the mental resources, the capacity needed to do both the tasks. When combined, that you're able to divide attention, give enough attention to split between these tasks, right? And whether or not you have the mental resources, the capacity, the room in your bucket, to do more, more than one things at once has to do with the novelty of the tasks that you're doing, how practiced it is, and then the nature of the task. So with the example of being able to listen to, not being able to listen to lyrics. Well, you're also reading. But you can listen to music with lyrics when you're doing sort of a visual task. And so the nature of the task and how much they interfere is going to matter. And talk about the research showing that the nature of the task matters and the research on that the novelty of the task matters. So this first study was studied in the early seventh, the early seventies. And so what they did is they have people do this shadowing Boyce shadowing task, like in the dichotic listening task where you have to repeat the words that are in one channel. And what they do is you're, somebody is saying words and you have to repeat those words. Everybody's doing that task, that's task one. Task two, you have to remember not a word in the string you're shadowing, but a different word. And there's three sort of ways that the word is presented. One is spoken too. It's a written words, you read the word, then three, it's a picture. So if it's, if the word is flour, it would be a picture of a flower rather than the word flower. And so what they find is on the y axis here is errors so higher as bad. We hear the word you're shadowing your eardrum is verbal task. And then you hear the word. People make a lot of errors and their memory. When you see the word, when it's the word flower written, then you make more errors than when it's pictures, but less errors than when you heard the word. And then finally, in this third condition, if it's just a picture of a flower, people make very few errors. And so this is an example of dividing attention being difficult when it's similar resources being used. This is called specificity of resources. So the idea that similar tasks compete for similar resources. And so when you were trying to do two things, they're using similar resources like hearing words. Your performance is going to be more diminished than when it's more of a visual stimuli presentation. And so this is showing that the more similar tasks are, the more they're going to interfere. So just curious here. How often do you talk on the phone, handheld or holding it? Talk on the phone while driving? Right click and if you haven't, I should've probably included I don't drive. So E If you don't drive, most people saying rarely, good for you. One of my New Year's resolutions this year was to talk on the phone and use my phone less than the car is bad. All right. Let's try this one. Be honest. Again, E If you don't drive. Okay. Never ever. And rarely being tied for first, I think my husband left band or in the other room and now he's scratching at the door. He's supposed to be in the garage. This is the downside of getting bend your back. Yeah. I'm also bad at texting when I just sometimes I just look at my phone on at a red light and dual on Drive and banana red lights and it's bad and I don't to stop doing it. But these are both bad things to do. And then we'll talk about why. Okay, so here's some research that they've looked at with cell phone use in cars. So they do a lot of these trays like driving simulators. So on the y axis, you have pretty extreme measure fractions of light myth, lights missed in the driving simulator. So no phone versus on a cell phone. Move the dog. Oh. Sorry, I guess we can discriminate glass. Ok, so say hi banjo, little escape artist. Okay, so on the x axis here are on the Y axis here we have reaction times when more subtle measure of driving ability, breaking speed and things like that. No cell phone and with a cell phone. And then this interesting finding. So these first two conditions basically showing when you're talking on the phone, you're driving, performance is impaired. And this condition here is, this is actually a good measure on the y axis. So this is S and highway, highway navigation. And I'm not really sure exactly how they operationalize best. Maybe some combination of both lights missed and reaction time. What you see is that when you're talking to a passenger, so you're not on the phone, you're having a conversation, but it's a passenger in the car. People are better at highway navigation, the teal bar compared to having a conversation on a cell phone while driving. And so this basically indicates the two bars on the two graphs on the left indicate this idea of general resources being used. So you're doing the driving task, which is presumably very different than a conversation task that you're doing by talking on the phone. So there's very dissimilar tasks, but they are still competing with resort for resources. So you can do both the same things at the same time. A lot of, uh, said that we do talk on the phone while driving, but it does diminish performance. And so there are different types of tasks, but they're competing for, there's still competing for resources. And so this suggests that there is some shared bucket, right? So even if the tests are very different from each other, there's some general resources that are being used across tasks. But let's talk about this. Driving with a passenger versus talking on the phone. So why do you think this finding exists? So why are people more successful at highway navigation when talking to a passenger, comparator to talking on having a conversation on the phone. And how would you test this look, put it have something to do with specificity or resources. In a sense that driving a truck, driving is like a mechanically challenging task, right? You have to like pay attention to the road and you know, turn the wheel like you have to drive. And as I mean, talking and general divides attention. But would talking on the phone divide attention more than talking to someone in the car next to you because you have to like, make sure it's a phone is in your in your shoulder on your ear? Sure. Yeah. So you're proposing it's something it's something mechanical like you actually are doing another motor task. European hold the phone, hate engine or the phone is. And you don't have to do that with a passenger. We will talk about that, but it's a good observation. How would you test this hypothesis if you wanted to test that, that's the motivation or that's the reason why. Maybe you have like hands-free link, but you'd have like someone else do the hands-free linked because hands-free linkups people into trouble to cause they'll reach to turn it on and then getting into an accident. So if somebody else turned it on and deals with all the touching, all the mechanical motor stuff, the conversation hands-free and then compare that driving. Yeah. It's a great suggestion for a test the hypothesis, Matthew, I mean, I feel like you're a passenger would have very vested interests hoping that they don't die. They probably also tend to have on the road as you are if you're doing something sketchy, rights. So there's kind of two components to that, right? So they have the same information as U2, right? Yeah, as two components. One is that they're also paying attention. You have two sets of eyes essentially. And the other component is that they are seeing the same thing that you're seeing. Whereas the somebody on the phone isn't seeing the same thing you're saying, Leanna? I was thinking that because when you're talking to someone on the phone, like the audio, like the actual AC sound quality is worse than like someone sitting next to you. So you kinda have to speak louder. Focus here. You're hearing more on like the phone. You do just kinda like relax talking to someone next to you. Sure. So there's actually noise in the channel, right? You're having to do more work to hear potentially more cognitive resources being used to interpret what the person saying, clarify what you said. How would you test this hypothesis? I think maybe you could have like, seem like how? Well, actually, I don't really know. I'm not to go on the testing part. Yeah, no. I think I think what you could do is just add noise to the channel, right? Like you could have a very clear channel that there was not a lot of errors, make it a really clear signal. And then you can have a different condition where there was some disruption in less, less sound quality or something like that and see if that plays a role. Other ideas. Excuse me. Yeah, go for it. When we're doing this, we're assuming that this is like a hand-held phone, not just like Bluetooth because personally, like my car has LUCI than it. So when I drive, I just my thumb hits that little Answer button. That's almost Yeah. And then I speak. It's no different than if a carcinoid sitting right next to me. Yeah. Right. So this is a key question, right? Is it different? So going back to Luke's observation, that has something to do with a motor at distraction that you're having to like fumble with something or just turn it on an on and off or you don't have that. You are your you know, your home, your phone, you're having to fumble something amplitude or you don't have to do anything, we can test those conditions. And what you're suggesting is that you could actually totally in your situation, you're totally removing any of those motor issues. This is how you could test this, right? And they have, and I'll talk about a study in a second. So sort of different hypothesis policies. And one way you could test Luke's has have this perfectly hands-free two by three. You're not doing anything motor related. And in this case, the person is actually having a conversation on a cell phone. But I'll talk about some other research in a second. Where is hands held the vice matthew, Did you have a question or comment? Yeah. Just one. If we haven't mentioned it already is the cognitive load. So while you're driving, it might be a mechanical in nature, but what you're seeing, you're having to process. And by processing that, that's its own set of cognitive load depending on what you're talking about with the people. So I think a good tests would be how did him hold a generalized conversation of answering simple questions that don't really way too heavily on the mind. Like, Hey, did you get groceries today? Are you close to being home, something along those lines versus saying, hey, can you calculate this for me? Can you do a simple math declares, you're suggesting nature of the conversation. So like the more difficult the conversation is, the more cognitive load there's going to be. And so the more it's going to interfere and this task general way with your driving ability? Yes. Yeah. Yeah, that's a great point. So and the other things that students are brought up in the past is this idea of, it's an a, this is sort of what I was saying. I think there's the noise in the channel, but there's also like there's body language and things like that that you're automatically picking up on when you're having a conversation with somebody in the car with you versus on the phone, there's just more gaps you have to fill in, less information you're getting. It seems to be, no. I'll show you the hint. This, this will talk about this research that I'll talk about. Probably the reason why I'm driving with a passenger versus on a phone is different. So this was a really ecologically valid study they had, I don't know how many actual drivers they had, but there's 2 million miles of driving road covered. And so they had these cameras on the cars and they could actually see what happened in an accident. And so 82, but this was done in Canada. 82% of accidents and 782 accidents in 771 near accidents. 80% of all of the crashes involve some amount of inattention. Not just sort of flu things that couldn't be avoided, but some degree of and attention on the driver's part. And 22% involved a cell phone. And the really interesting thing about this study was that they were able to separate out handheld devices and hands-free devices. And what they found that in these 22% of accidents that involved a phone, there was no difference in the number of accidents caused by hands-free devices and handheld devices. And so this suggests that it doesn't have to do with, at least according to this, what, this study, it doesn't have to do with something about pushing the buttons or holding the phone. That that is a minor part of the reason that having a conversation is distracting. And so it seems to be, it's more to do with the fact that an other research supports this idea that. It has more to do with the fact that when you have a passenger in the car, they see what you see. And so your attention isn't focused on letting them know what's going on. So imagine you're driving with somebody. Imagine you're driving, you're on the phone and you get cut off. There's part of you that like wants to like, not stop the conversation because this, you know, this person doesn't see what you see. Needing to explain what just happened, then not stopping talking well, while you're like swerving, they're still talking is they don't know what's going on compared to a passenger. Just stop talking, they see exactly what you see. And so the conversation can be regulated by the driving conditions. You're talking more when you're disorder, cruising down the road, heavy traffic, both people sort of stop talking or paying attention to the road. And so the conversation is modulated by the road conditions that both people are aware of. Tina, I was thinking maybe the reason why talking on the phone is distracting is because like when you're when you're having a conversation, you're trying to visualize what they're saying they like navigating through a conversation is kind of using your visual resources. This was rarely April. That's a really acute, That's a really insightful observation. And we'll actually talk about a study that looks at that in a second. Ben Bergen, who is a professor in the cognitive science department here at UCSD, actually did a study testing the embodied sort of nature of the conversations that we have on the phone. And so what I will talk about a study that tests exactly that idea. I'm creates observation. So I'm a mess today. I computers about Sodexo, I gotta plug it in. So one of the things that is considered a task, a general resource, just to go back and remind you like where he came from here. We talked about this idea of the specificity of resources. The specificity of resources is this idea that the more similar a task is, the more it's going to interfere with with it, with another task that similar verbal processing, for example. So that specificity of resources, similar tasks interfering with each other. And then we talked about general resources. And so this is the idea that you could be doing two very different tasks, but there seems to be some shared, overlapping resources, general resources that are needed to do even very different tasks. So that's specificity resources and general resources. And a task, general resource that's really important and key is what's called executive control. And executive control is a mech mechanisms that set goals, priorities, shoes, strategies, control secret sequences of behaviors and cognitive processes. And so this is sort of the executive control seated in the prefrontal cortex. And. It's critical for sort of deciding what you attend to being able to manage task limits, switching, goal directed behavior and things like that. And it's essentially a critical role of executive control is this idea of a response selector. So initiating any sort of response. And this could be a physical response like reaching for something. It could be a mental thoughts like initiating a memory search, like what restaurant did we go to last weekend? New restaurant. You get the idea initiating a mental search. And there's sort of three components that you can kind of break executive control down into inhibiting automatic processes will talk about these in more detail. Inhibiting automatic processes. A lack of executive control will result in PR, separation errors and difficulty in goal planning. So what they called Goal neglect. So these are sort of the three, sort of you kind of break executive control down into these three components. And we'll talk about what each one is in more detail. So this is the Stroop task that you guys did, zaps. So just as a reminder, if you read through this column and just save that, try to say the color that the word is printed in the ink color. If you do that, it's pretty easy. And that's because these words are not, these letter strings are not pronounceable words. So you're not reading. Whereas if their actual words, particularly if they're color words, it's going to be very difficult. Your automatic tendency in this condition is to read the word red rather than say the color yellow, read the word black rather than say the color red. And so this isn't inhibitory control task, meaning that you have to, you have to use executive control to inhibit an automatic process. So reading words, of course not at birth, but once you learn to read reading words is an automatic process, we can't turn off. This is the reason that some of these studies that look at, you know, going out into nature and how have these really stress reducing properties? One of the hypotheses for why nature has the stress rock properties is banjo is that is that your dog isn't Marchand other dogs and that you're not reading words. So when you are out in nature, you're not sort of bombarded with signs and sort of stimuli that you have to read and automatically process. One idea. So, so naming the ink color and also reading the words, they're similar processes there was requiring linguistic resources. Yeah, it was being very generous to banjo. Yeah, he's defending us. And so the idea is you have this automatic process and you have to inhibit that automatic process in order to do the task. And so the more executive control you have, the more inhibitory control you have, the more you're able to inhibit this automatic process. Other examples of inhibitory control, you can have these tasks where you have to press a button. So you have to press, say, the left arrow key or the right arrow key. And you'll have this stimuli in the middle, and it's the middle stimuli that you have to respond to. But the flankers in like the top condition or incongruent, they're pointing in the opposite direction. And then you have congruent trials where they're pointing in the same direction and these neutral trials. And so in the incongruent task, it involves its inhibitory control. You have to inhibit the thinkers in order to respond to the center bar. Similar like the Stroop task, this task where you have to name the picture, but it's going to be labeled with the wrong word. And so you can clean, congruent condition and count how. But if you're supposed to say cat, the, the word spider here will slow you down. It has a weird looking spike. Okay? So that's inhibitory control, something that's automatic, that you don't do that behavior, you do a different behavior instead and you have to inhibit that first, initial knee-jerk reaction. That's 11 thing that executive control does. People who have poor executive control, like people with prefrontal cortex damage, make what are call per separation errors. They're essentially their response selector is malfunctioning, so it's hard to switch between tasks, for example. So there's this dimensional change card sorting task. And so you have to do is sort the cards based on different rules. So maybe on one condition you're sorting based on color, another condition. Then you are asked OK, stop sorting on color, sore on shape, sore on number. And as you go, what dimension you're sorting on changes. And people that don't have to have poor executive control have difficulty switching between these rule. So the rule is pretty simple. But switching between rules proves very challenging. Other examples of this, that you have to either report the number or the letter on different trials. And on the trial will tell you which you have to report the number or the letter. And people with PRE separation errors will have a hard time switching between those. Okay, so try this. If you have a pen and paper near or a pen and paper nearby, tried it as draw just to copy this image or just to start. If you don't just imagine how you might go about drawing this image. Okay, so if you started to do that, potentially what you did was maybe draw. Yeah. What TJ, Thanks. You draw the outer sketch, maybe the, the square and then you bisect it diagonally with the two lines and then the horizontal and vertical line. And then maybe start to add in the details. But what people with executive control issues do is something like this. So they don't tend to sort of start out with a high level plan, might draw the square bisected with those lines, et cetera. And you, of course, there's not one specific way to go about drawing this. But most people will start with some sort of coherent essentially plan. Whereas people with executive control issues will show it's called Goal neglect. And they'll just start copying at random different pieces without any sort of global plan of how to execute this drawing. Other tests of planning our goal neglect are things like the Tower of Hanoi. You see an arrangement of these pieces and you have to move the tower into that arrangement with as few moves as possible. This other task where you have to do is I think it's also like a iPhone app. You have to connect the numbers in order without it, with as few lines as possible. Things like that. So you can just see how all of these different things are considered executive control. You can see how critical executive control is to sort of functioning in our life. And so this tina brought up this idea of could it be something about when you're having a conversation on the phone, that it's something about visualizing aspects of the conversation. They're actually interfering with driving. This. I'll say right away that this doesn't seem to be the main component. The main component does seem to be that you're using resources to have. It's difficult to have a conversation on the phone, comparative and person because the person isn't seeing what you're seeing. And you're sort of having to do these two different tasks at once, taking up these domain general resources. But what ben Bergen and colleagues tested here was, yes, we know that that task, general resources inhibit our driving ability. They're very different task than a lot of ways. There's some general resources that are being tapped. They're not questioning bat, but they're saying in addition to those task general resources, maybe there's some specificity of resources that are also interfering with driving. And so just a reminder, specificity of resources would be something like the word task. It's harder verbalizing a word. Remembering a verbalized word while you're verbalizing words is more challenging than having to verbalize where the remember a picture. And that shows that specificity of resources and then that task, general resources is the example I gave with talking on the phone. While driving to very different tasks, they still interfere with each other. Eight. Would a problem with that be homophones? Or what's the, what's it called them? I go to words like bat and that are the same but have multiple meanings. As I think that's behind that, that is all iPhone but thing. Or is it going? I forgot, but there's, there's like homophones, homonyms. And if you're given a picture, like a picture like a duck versus the Word doc, I feel like it's so much easier to know like a singular definition rather than thinking about multiple, like given this open ended woods? Sure. Yeah. I think that they probably I would venture to guess that they probably tried to avoid we'll say there words that haven't. I don't know what they're called. So words that have the same sound but different meeting. I'm sure I would guess that they had tried to avoid those because that would pose an issue with this sort of finding if they didn't control for that. But this is just, just so you know, even, this is one study that I of a hat to demonstrate this. But there's, this has been shown across many, many different studies. That the more similar the task is, the more it interferes. But that is a good point. That is definitely something that they would want to control for in this study because that would be, that would be added content. Absolutely. So Donovan homophones. Okay. That it was not answering the question. Does somebody want to look that up for me just so we know what they're called. Are there homophones? Dominant? You're, you're I mean, if you're talking what? No. No. You didn't. Okay. No problem. Don't worry about it. Okay. You think got it. Got it. Thank you. I think so. The question here is. That, that these researchers were asking. Ok, yeah, we know it's a general resources that interfere with talking on the phone and driving. But is it also some degree of specificity of resources in addition to domain general resources. And so what they did was, well, so the, the basic premise of their researches, earlier research on sort of an bodied cognition. And so this idea that when people use language with some motor or visual component, it engages the motor or perceptual system that is used to perform that action. So for example, reading the Word to open a jar, you turn the lid counterclockwise. That'll activate your motor map. Reading. Letters on a stop sign are white, will activate visual areas, right? And so the question was, does what you're talking about influence your driving performance specifically, does these things that driving is a visual motor task. Does talking or thinking about things that activate your motor map or that activate your visual system, interfere more with driving than things that don't. And so they had people in this drive in a simulator. And the common tasks for driving simulators are one, following a pace car and then breaking time. Reaction time to breaking or breaking reaction time is the more crude measure. And then accurately following this pace car, keeping a certain distance from the pace car and following it appropriately as the more sort of nuanced measure. And those are the common emitters as a driving ability, highway navigation and he's driving studies. And so what they did was they had these four conditions. So there's the motor condition to open a jar, you turn counterclockwise. And so people had to respond true or false statement. So they were driving and they were listening to these statements, and they had to respond to true or false. The visual sentences, the letters on a stop sign or white. And then they had this abstract condition, which things like the capital of North Dakota is Bismarck True or False? And the abstract condition was sort of, and then the control condition is just driving in the abstract condition as sort of a control. In that the idea is that it's not, it's a language task, but it's not a task that is activating visual or motor cortex. And so the idea is that motor envision these two tasks would be our testing that specificity is Vs. By comparing it to be abstract task, it's still different type of task and that it's a language task. But it's not using motor envision systems in this embodied way. Ok. Any questions about the methods they used here? Okay. It's 250. I will tell you all about the findings on Friday. Feel free to ground. And if you have any questions, I have office hours today. Stop by if you have anything longer than a couple minute question. I just had a quick question on a shirt. How were you able to find bedroom? Sorry if I like I came late. If you'd like to mention that. No, no. He there the Humane Society has a website that they update really frequently. And so basically the last couple days I've just been like obsessively refreshing it. And right before I went ticket miles on Tuesday or on Monday, like yeah, right after class actually write FMR after my office hours, I refresh the page. And there he is looking like a criminal in a mugshot. Yeah. So and then I couldn't go get him that night because they closed. So I think again the next day when I lost like entrepreneurs talk, I just made sure like the next time I ever lose on he just has a chain with my number on it because I like I just wrote down something behind that number. Yeah, he had a dog tag that he mystic. In his 2D adventure, he must have got snagged on something. Oh, it did. Oh, damn. Yeah, I think so because they just see when when he turned and he didn't have this colorant. Okay. Okay. Alright. Wants cluttered. Yeah. So you gotta pay their color. I went but I'm a tighter color. Thank you. Those things. Professor, I had a question. I am extremely color blind and I think I got a 0 on the strip effect is apps that are really not part of it. It's like like a green, right? Yeah. Right. Just APA I can click on them and got them all wrong. So yeah, therapists who shy even help to get that corrected. Let me just fix that right now. Okay. Let's They didn't know didn't think about that as an issue. But it makes sense. We ought to email. I'll send gate and let them know about that too, because that's that's something they should probably fix in the way that they ask the questions, right? Right, right. There's plenty of people that are color-blind. Any other question while I'm doing this? This was Antonio. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. No problem. That Professor. I have question. Sure. Yeah. I can about the final or maybe it's too early in the quarter, but I guess because I'm I'm nervous about it because we didn't have much chance. Usually. A good thing you don't like. Think midterms aren't good practice. Again, to feel what's going on the exams. I guess I'm going to have like a study guide or some kind of guidance. Yes. Yeah. You'll have a study guide. You'll have a steady got, It'll be cumulative. So it'll be a study guide. But basically we'll just break and everything that we've covered in class. And the question is, will basically be like the quizzes. So even though you didn't have midterms to practice on the, the, the final is really just going to be like a longer version of the quizzes. Okay? Okay, that makes sense. Alright, yeah, so basically what the quizzes are is usually there. Rather than have quizzes, I have two mid-terms with all the quizzes, quiz questions compiled, and two midterms. And then I was like, why would I do that rather than just like break it up every week? It seems like easier for everybody to just habit like sort of. And it's those research suggests that being tested more frequently is better than being tested more frequently. It's basically the same type of questions. It's just, they've been spread over quizzes rather than broken up into midterms. Okay? Or any, yeah, that makes sense. Now you create a weekly assignments are awesome because they help us stay on track, like review material, like on a timely manner. But yeah, and I just do that. Midterms would stress me out so much as like, why do that? And I realize why it why do that? The reason why I do that is because when you're in a classroom, you don't want to take part of every class doing these quizzes. You, you know, you want to look at today is where you have tests, right? Because you're forced to have everybody in the classroom, but we don't have that constraint now, so Grady, thank you. Sure. Okay. I'm gonna be in my office hours if anybody has further questions.