 So I talked a lot the first week about the history of cognitive science and this idea that we can't look inside the black box and how behavioralist only wanted to measure this. Inputs and outputs, the rewards, punishments and responses. And not talk about cognitive mechanisms, not heard about cognition and not talk about mental representation. And then they said, But we moved on to do cognitive science. But then I spent the last week talking about learning in behavioral terms. So why did I do that? And so the idea is not that these methods or the empirical results are bad. And anyway, this data is really good. We still trust it today. We still implement behavioral techniques, cognitive behavioral therapy, for example. The fact that, you know, Vegas uses these principles to get people to gamble or video games or Facebook or whatever. So these, these principles are really powerful. The distinction that we want to make is according to strict classical behavior was perspective. They don't want to look inside the black box. They don't want to talk about cognitive representation or, or talk about cognition. Not that there's anything wrong with the empirical results. It's really just the interpretation of what they mean. Yes. So some of the stuff we talked about, we can only talk about the stimulus response relationships. Learning is all about the stimulus response relationships that are formed automatically and kind of passively in stupidly. Things like causal learning are all about these contingencies occurring. And so the same data from the cognitive perspective, it just can be kind of expanded and reinterpreted. So there's a lot of observations that just require these richer explanations. So one is just distinguishing between learning and performance. We'll talk about what these mean in more detail. It's going to go through the bullet points or the idea that expectation matters. We will go through some examples of how that, how Rule Learning shows that it's not just the simple associative contingencies that we learn. And then the fact that we're very sensitive to probabilistic relationships. More than just pure lead two things happening together. We're more sensitive to how often two things happen together, but also factoring in how often they happen apart. And so it's, it's more complicated probabilistic model that we have of the world than just the simple associate, the simple associations. And then the fact that we can learn through observation. So sometimes we can just observe somebody else doing something and be able to do it without actually ourself ever having been rewarded. So this learning performance distinction is exactly what it sounds like. Not every simple idea, Not everything that is learned manifests in performance, especially not immediately. So this cartoon summarizes it perfectly. So I actually know more commands that I respond to. And this is totally true of my, my dog, banjo here, the one that's too cool for school and Hoodie. He's a bad dog. He's just not a good dog. And lambda on the left is my friend Ed dog and she's a very good dog. Banjo shows this learning performance distinctions. Who's really picky eater down to like liking his eggs, based it bases when you like fry the egg and you put some water on, you cover eight, you steam it a little bit. He will only basics. Dead serious. He won't eat fried eggs. He also has a brand of hot dog. So when I asked him to sit, he will do it sometimes if it's his brand of hot dog with eggs are based it. But most of the time, if it's a foodie doesn't want, he'll just look at me and walk away. And so this is a learning performance distinction that he does know how to sit, but he just doesn't do it on command as opposed to lambda who is like the Hermione Granger of dogs and will do anything she's asked. So in lambda there's no learning performance distinction. So expectation mattering. So this was a study done in the late sixties. And we'll talk about the meaning of it after I walk through this sort of paradigm, what they did. So first they ask participants, the first task is, which card Do you want to make a guess it out. So the task is going to be to guess. If you choose the blue card. Is it a seven or nine on the back? If you choose the red card, is it a four or a six on the back? So first you choose, I want to look at that hard. I wanna make a guess about that hard. At that point, presumably there's a 50-50 chance that you'll guess right? You guessed nine, it's actually seven. You don't get a reward. One thing I didn't say is I forget the details, but let's say in dollar amount, that's what you're going to be given you. So you're gonna be given, if you've guessed nine and it was $99, you got seven. You're wrong, you get nothing. Or you could choose this card. Say you guess for it is a four, you get $4. So they do this a lot of times they choose between these two cards. If she's correct, they're rewarded. But I don't know how to actually do this without a computer. But the crux of this, the secret thing that was going on was that uncertain high reward cards. So let's say the 79 card, they were never rewarded. So if it gets nine, the researcher would tell them it was a seven. It, they guessed seven. The researcher would tell them that was a nine. They never got it right. And so what is the prediction there? Based on reinforcement learning, operant conditioning. How often will they pick those cards in the future? Yeah. Yes, so the prediction, the behavioralist prediction of reinforcement learning, is that they're never getting rewarded for those choices. Therefore, they should start shifting to choosing the lower value cards because those are the cards that they consistently get rewarded for it. And so this is why it's a challenge to this sort of behavioralist interpretation is because that's not what they do. So people continue to choose the higher value cards. Is this a dumb thing to do or not a dumb thing to do? Assuming you don't know the experimenter is tricking you? Of our Sure. Yeah, so I think it's not a dumb thing to do because you have some sort of fixed probability. If you do it enough times, then you should get rewarded. And so we'll talk about this next time. But the take home is that people still pick the high reward card. Because if you don't know the experimenters tricking you, you have a more complicated model of what's going on. You know, there's a 50-50 chance. And so you should just, there's a 50-50 chance in both cases. So go with the higher value. And the kind of heart of this study is that it's evidence that we're doing something that's not just forming these associations, not just repeating behavior that we've been rewarded for. That we are doing something more complicated, that we're forming models of how the world works. Forming probabilistic relationships and expectations based on what we know about situations and events, not just responding how we were rewarded. So this idea that expectation matters is the step away from that behavioralist approach. Just something was never rewarded, but it's still, the behavior still continues. The other lower card is rewarded more, but that behavior doesn't increase. So this is kind of violating that idea that, uh, rewarded behavior is going to increase the behavior and punish behavior is going to decrease the behavior. That doesn't always happen. We're doing something more complicated and interesting. And then other, this is, I think the last study we left off on this idea that things can happen together all the time. And that doesn't necessarily mean that we learn those relationships. We only learn the relationships in the world that we're sort of looking for oftentimes. And so in this study, there's the complex rule condition, this top one. And so a participant is presented with a shape of a, of a different size, either a big triangle or a small triangle or a small circle and a bit, or a big circle. And the rule is that if it's a big triangle, then it's a yes. And if it's a small circle than it's a yes. And so that's the rule that you're supposed to learn. But then there's the simpler rule, this other condition where if it's a red object, it's yes, if it's a white object now. And what happens in the study interestingly, is that people learn this talk rule, the more complex rule, but they often fail to learn the simpler rule. Even though they're presented with this simple rule, they see this association red and yes being paired. But It's hypotheses about the world. What we choose to pay attention to and evaluate. That leads us to form these, these relationships. Oftentimes, people just simply fail to consider that the rule could be that simple. And so they don't learn that association. There's a fun thing I'll post today on canvas, which is kind of demonstrates this idea that we're really, we only learn the rules that we make hypotheses about. So watch out for that. Okay, so this rule learning, not forming these simple associations, if we're not looking for them. And then this is a little bit complicated, but it's a pretty classic study, so I think it's definitely necessary to talk about, so its risk score Lee in 1967. And the question is, is it just things happening together a lot that will cause an animal to learn a behavior? Or is it the nature of the probabilistic relationships? So the two terms to get straight, our co-occurrence. And so co-occurrence just means that two things happened together many times. And this is distinguished from this idea of contingency, which is that they happen together a lot. But they happen together more often than when they, than alone more often and independently. So a co-occurrence, you can have a situation with a co-occurrence that the shootings happened together a lot. But one of the thing is off also just happens by itself a lot too. With contingency, you can't have that contingency means that they're happening more together than separately. So I don't know exactly what it was. If it was a light or a buzzer or a particular chamber the animal is placed in. But there's something that indicates the start of a trial. And then two things can happen. A bell sounds, rebel doesn't sound. And then following the bell or Nobel, the animal either gets food or doesn't get food. And so what they do is they manipulate the co-occurrence and the contingency. And what they're interested in is. Is it just this sort of stupid co-occurrence thing happening? Is it just want two things happen together a lot. We form that association or something more complex going on that we're learning the sort of underlying probabilistic structure and are caring about this information value. If they happen more often together than alone, if are we picking up on that more subtle relationship? And so one trial, there's high co-occurrence. And so when the bell happens, so when the bell happens, food follows 80% of the time, 20% of the time it doesn't. And then in the Nobel situation, food occurs just by itself 80% of the time. And so this is a situation where there's high co-occurrence. Meaning that the bell and the food happened together. 80% of the time that the bell happens, Food happens, high co-occurrence, but not high contingency. Food occurs without the bell just as often as it occurs with the belt. Now we can have the situation where there's high co-occurrence. The food follows the bell 80% of the time again. But now we also have a contingency. Sometimes the food happens without the bell, but less often only 40% of the time. And so there's a high contingency, meaning that given that the bell happened, there's more likely to be food than when the built-in habit. And we can have low on both, at least relatively low compared to the other trials. So low co-occurrence. Food only follows about 40% of the time and also low contingency. It's appearing equally often. Food is occurring equally often when there's about, when they're not about. And then finally, we have low co-occurrence. Food only follows the bell 40% of the time, but high contingency. And so the food only happens when there was a bell proceeding. Yeah. And so the interesting result here is this the importance of this contingency. It's not just the co current, that's not just two things happening together were swarming is dumb association. But if in these situations where there's high contingency, that matters. So when the food follows the bell and group number to 80% of the time, it doesn't learn the relationship when there's no contingency in the first row, group one, but it does learn it. The co-occurrence is held constant, but the contingency is manipulated. And I think the most striking comparison is between row one and row four. So in row one, there's a higher co-occurrence. Food follows the bell way more often than in group four. It only thought was about 40% of the time. There's less trials where the bell happens and then Food happens. Yet, if only in Group four that the relationship is learned. So lower co-occurrence, but higher contingency. And so this study is just really kind of pivotal and important because it's just showing that it's not just these associations were picking up on this statistical relationships and structure in the world. So just to make sure we're on the same page with this one, let's try this. So there's a group of drink of the dogs and the co-occurrence. And in each or the, yeah, the percent of the time that food follows a bell or Nobel is shown. So which do you expect to become a conditioned stimulus? Okay, great cooking if you have it. Awesome. Yeah, well above are 70% gold standard. Yeah. So we expect that we affect the learning to happen in C. Even though a compared to C, The food is only following the bell 30% of the time. There's only that pairing. 30% of the time, there's that high contingency is giving you that information value. Okay? So we're sensitive to these probabilistic relationships over these pure associations. Ok. So another challenge to the behavioralist perspective is the observation that observational learning happens. And so when Thornburg, If you remember Thorndike's puzzle box where he put that cat in the box and you have a fish on the outside and sort of watch the cat do all these different behaviors. And then it would repeat the behaviors until it got out. It the behavioralist first did that and they didn't see, again, it wasn't, there wasn't really clear measures of, of all of these things. And they didn't seem to be able to teach another cat to watch the first cat because they're very complicated behavior. And so they didn't see this observational learning. So they didn't think observational learning existed, but it definitely does. And so this is for, shown in the, in the forties. Actually, they have his cat and they put the cat in the box. They have some other cat, cat audience. And it's sort of a simple task. The cactus has to hit the little toggles. Turn the wheel to get the food. And what he finds here is that the observer has solved the problem a lot faster when they have an opportunity to watch another cat, figure out how to do it. So animals definitely do this sort of observational learning. And so, ooh, sorry to invite a little bit on that one. Oh, maybe on this screen. So a question here that researchers are now. So it's not a question really of if observational learning is possible. For humans on, this study is looking at, well, I'll just show it to you. And hopefully the sound is quieter now. Hopefully I can play it at all. To prove that one, I can copy another student of Andrew Wikileaks device experiment at the University of Texas. And tons per Terry as both a kind of slot machines for aids. He learns it was great. To get the fruit. A chimp must first turn a disk to allow the greater drop through a hope. Next, a chimp must move a door that opens a handle to release the fruit palatable. Sputtering now trains a chimp named Judy how to work the device. She would never work it out. But thanks to a sweet liquid reward, she learns the sequences. Two steps, rotates. Then push, makes Judy's group mates and tough. Secretary wants to know if just by watching, the spectators will learn the technique. Can these apes to win this food finding game? One chimps seems to think she's coffees can shoves Judaea. A minutes ago, judy was the only one with the knowledge. Now another hazards. Quickly the tricks spreads throughout the group. But hospitality, the most important question remains, will have their next door neighbors also learn this emotionally. They have those social ties to the original group. In fact, they are hostile towards them. Will they set that aside to keep up with the Joneses next door? In no time at all. They're working the slot machine like old produce, rotating, then pushing the hand. Learning by imitation is an essential skills for culture. And culture. Along with the complex thoughts and emotions behind it, was long believed to be uniquely human. Okay. Hold that off for a second. I'm using keynote because I haven't gotten PowerPoint installed on my laptop yet and I don't know how to use it. That's what's happening. So why is that observational learning a problem for behavioralism? From a strictly behavioralist point of view. Use perfects. Perfects, Yeah, so what was your name again? Alex. So Alex said was that from this behavioralist perspective, there's the necessity for a reward or a punishment to, for behavior to increase or decrease. And then in this situation, of course, the animal has not gotten any direct reward. It's just witnessed. Witness the other animal gets a reward, is still able to learn. And of course, with children. And this is how so much of learning happens. And so what we've done in study with children in miles, won't he want to record my funny, the ATM and he won't directly imitate. I feel like we'll try to show him how to do something and it was like stare at us and then we'll look back in the room and I'll be like trying to do it on his own, went through like not watching him anymore. He really likes to drive the car, so we have to go out there and have to like put them in the truck and just let him like steer for a long time. He says Dad down, turns the keys and he just wants to drive. Some kids, just imitate everything. And so a question here is, is it something about watching somebody else be rewarded? Is there the social learning thing going on? Is it what the behavioralist called vicarious reinforcement? So that you witnessed somebody else get a reward. And so it's not that you're being rewarded, but it's that you are witnessing a reward or a punishment. And so you can learn from this social reinforcement. But they do these studies with like you have a human do a behavior and they learn it. You can also have kids watch where fishing line just shows the mechanisms of a toy. The door opens, the ball rolls through whatever the, this lever moves. And they can learn just the mechanical sequence of events. And also of course, imitation, like with Miles watching Ryan drive the car, there's not any necessarily direct reward that's being witnessed. So yeah, that's this idea of vicarious reward, vicarious punishment. That's sort of how the behavioral is wiggled out of these criticisms from observational learning. And Bandura proposed this what's called the social cognitive theory of learning. And this was a unique step to explain a lot of observational learning because it was the first to kind of say that yes, we do these observations, these invitations and modelling, um, but it was important because it talked about mechanisms like internal processes. So using terms like attention and memory, calling upon mental representation and this idea that we have motivation to learn from others. And so it was the sort of first theory of observational learning that broke it up into these cognitive components. And so he did a lot of research with, with, with kids and looking at sort of modelling imitation behaviour. It's not super important to show these videos, but I just like them. So we're gonna watch him. So he did these classic studies, the Bobo doll experiment, the sixties. And so it was done at Stanford. Probably couldn't do it today. For ethical reasons. There's a lot of really fun non-ethical experiments done at Stanford in the sixties. So there's 1672 children and they're in these three conditions. So 24 of them watch a video with an aggressive model. 24 of them watch a video with a non-aggressive model on there's just control condition that doesn't watch a model do anything. And they just want to see what does that show? What did the children so this is the aggressive model hung up in the air. Kept it repeatedly. It's very cold and calculating with the Bobo doll, threw down a beat. It varied passion. That's my favorite part of the study, is, is that the terrible part which is the mild a correction arousal. And so what they did, which is horrible as they take these kids and then they put them in a room so they'd they'd have they watched the video. Before watching the video. Yeah. Yeah. So they watch the model, then they are put in a room and have all these toys. And then the researcher waits to see what TEU the kid wants to play with. And then she sweeps in and says, oh, this toys actually saved for another better child and takes the toy away. Um, and so that's the mild aggression or as or phase. And then they're observed playing at the Bobo doll thing. We'll jump ahead because a girl and it was a person who is online. I can't jump cuz I don't know how to use Quito. But the idea here is that unsurprisingly probably that it was in that aggressive condition where they watched the aggressive model, that they then elicited this aggressive behavior. And so the study was that has been interpreted in various ways. And it's often cited as showing evidence that through this observational social learning, this is why aggression is so pervasive in our society, because we're these violent movies and violent video games. And so bender or went onto uses social cognitive theory to say that there shouldn't be violence and movies and video games because it's causing people to be aggressive. That's never actually been shown in a control. It's a, it's a, it's a leap. It's never really been shown in a controlled experiment, right? So you can find correlations between people who play violent video games and being violent. But it's hard to know the causal direction, right? It's hard to know if kids that are attracted to violent video games are attracted to violent video games because they're aggressive or vice versa. Also things like parenting styles, socioeconomic status, all of these things. So there's not really a struggling there. But what we can conclude from these studies, the point of these is just the, the interesting contribution from vendor is that cognitive, social cognitive theory, where he has this model, that is, for the first time sort of putting learning in terms of this attention, memory, motivational framework. Another interesting thing the kids do. Sometimes adults do this also is this idea of over imitation. So that's the way they term it is they do these instrumental irrelevant actions. So instrumental irrelevant would be something that you have to do to actually get the goal or get the reward. The instrumental irrelevant action is something that's just not necessary for the task at all. In this behavior seems to be uniquely human. So these visits a study with older kids, but they have this glass jar and there's this little item inside the loop on it. And there's the two pipe cleaners. And then no model takes one of a pipe cleaners and takes the black pipe cleaner and wraps it around the bottom of a glass jar, which would be the instrumental, irrelevant action. It's not necessary for getting the thing out. But then he uses makes it into a hook and gets the toy out or whatever it is. And so kids will mimic this behavior. And so they won't just do the instrumental relevant part which is use the hook. Though, also wrap the little black pipe cleaner on the bottom of the glass. And this actually increases with age to a point. And it seems to be uniquely pictorial. Horner's shows a chimp how to operate a puzzle box to get to treat. First, she taps, then she slots. Next. She pokes the chimp copies fairly well and get the swing. This game we're gonna play is about the special box I brought. All right. There's a gummy bear gets a ureter. Children copy the actions much as the chimps did. You got him drive. There's a gummy bear curvature. Second box that I show the chimpanzees is this one. And it's identical to the opaque box, except that it's made out of material which a seizure already. Now is it obvious that the tapping and poking don't achieve? The books has a full ceiling. Woo, woo, woo. The chimps cuts of the traits. They skip the need the steps. For the Apes. It is all about the trick. What this study shows is that apes don't just mindlessly. They also understand something more about cause and effect. We found something quite surprising. The children were predisposed to copy, even when it meant that they were getting something that was really rather silly. So this seems a little like the chimps are watching the kids in this particular study. Theory is, you gotta man. Okay, guys will talk with us. So the person sitting next to you takeaway idea, do you think that the chimps are outsmart him again? Can you imagine a reason why children might have a tendency to over imitate when learning from adults. Yeah. So more people paying? No. Some people saying yes, there's no right answer. Some people saying see you for some reason. So any, again, there's no real right answer here, but any arguments for one or the other? The Uh-huh. Like a cultural sort of ours, that is that the chimps are seeing it as just trying to get this reward. Whereas the whole enterprise for a child might be something more complicated, not just about getting a reward, but maybe as some sort of cultural aspects. Remember your name? Miga, when the, oh, oh, oh, oh, that's interesting. So me go saying that when the experimenter introduce the task, that he introduced it as a game. And so that might have implicitly queued the children off that they should be doing all it because games, right? These are oftentimes games, I'm totally irrelevant. Rules if anybody has played like, I don't know, power grid or something like that. There's somebody like weird abstract rules that don't make any sense. But you know, you're playing games, you're going to do all the things. Other ideas, yes, him, say along this line. So basically those that he's got a theory of mind sort of perspective. Yeah, I like this little rates, right? I love that explanation. So maybe the chimps don't have that sort of theory of mind for the adult doing behavior. And so they're just watching the mechanical mechanisms. Whereas the children are saying, well, if this adult is doing this, it must be doing it for a reason. I don't know what the reason is, but I'm gonna do it anyways. Yeah. Really science, learn others. Sure. Sure. Yeah. So so we're so such a soldier social, what was your name? Adam. Adam to yeah. What Adam said. You can be out in one day since you spoke first. What Adam said was that we're such a social creature that maybe we're just designed to learn by watching others. And maybe the primary thing isn't to figure out the mechanism of the device. But it's, It's more putting this emphasis on just copying others because that's where most of our learning is going to happen. And so we're predisposed to do this. And I think that I think you have all kind of touched on this, which is this idea of culture and ritual. And there's all kinds of fun games like if you think about society in general, a lot of what we do is we're all very close right now. Like there are so many things that aren't necessarily necessary that we do. We sit at tables and Eatly. There's so many things we just take for granted that are technically just kind of cultural, ritualized behaviors that we do. And so for us to function, society, you know, we don't, we don't just need to learn the like practical instrumental rules, but we also need to learn the things that are technically irrelevant, but that everybody doesn't have, everybody's doing them than we're going to do them. And that's sort of how culture evolves. And some evidence, so weak evidence, but the evidence that, you know, it's not dumb or is the idea that it does increase with age. And so from 12 months to five years, you have this increase of over imitation and then it declines. I think an interesting thing to do, and I don't know if they would have done this. But an interesting thing to do would be one, don't like Nikos, I don't call it a game. Two. If you put the child in a room alone, so you'd have them do it while the person is watching because there might be some of that feedback. You know. There are studies that find that like when somebody imitates you, you subconsciously like them better. Maybe children are picking up on that, that if I don't do exactly what this person's doing, then it's gonna hurt this person's feelings or whatever. Yeah, allison. Oh, I love that. Yeah. So what Alison said was instead of having an adult, so I think it was I forget who said it. But somebody said that. We assume that I think as Adam said, that we assume the adult knows what he's doing. And therefore, even if I don't understand the mechanism, we're going to go with what the adults doing an Allosaurus suggesting actually have another child be the experimenter. Watch the child, do the behavior and see if it's still over imitated. That's a really good idea. And some ideas that had been put forth, I think we touched on a lot of them. Is this over mutation. Just, maybe, just from like an information perspective, maybe better to over imitate them under imitate, you can edit out stuff later just from like, you know, airing on one side, rational perspective. This idea that humans are pedagogical meaning that most of the things we learn, we are taught. And so it would make sense that we're paying attention to things that we don't know that they're relevant now, but they might be on the exam. So I might as well listen. And then I like this idea that it's, it's rewarded. That has kind of a behavioralist perspective. But we might have this sort of predisposition to do this, but we're also rewarded for it. The behavioral is called this general, generalized imitation. And so put our meeting here. Okay? And so the behavioralist called this, you could just say, Okay, like there's this intrinsic motivation. We're social creatures. This is intrinsic motivation to imitate. And imitating itself is something that we like to do and we're rewarded for. But the behavioral has had this idea of generalized imitation. So they don't say that that were predisposed for imitation. Their argument is that it's just like a stimulus can be generalize, just like in the Little Albert study. Basically, children are rewarded for some things when they're imitating. And so they just imitate more things and they're rewarded for because they've generalized. Okay, we'll keep talking about this on Friday.