 Okey-dokey, alright, so classical conditioning and some of the parameters in ways you gotta play the classical conditioning now and talk about what I think is more interesting, which is operant conditioning. I think it applies to our lives much more than classical conditioning does. And so again, this distinction, classical conditioning, there's an involuntary reflex type response that occurs after pairing with responds to the stimuli salivation. This automatic reflexive response. Operant conditioning in both as operant behavior is voluntary or controlled behavior. So it's some action that you're doing. And critically, it's related to the future probability of the behavior. And so we talk about positive, negative reinforcement and positive and negative punishment and reinforcement. The term reinforcement and the term punishment. The way they're defined is in relation to whether they increase or decrease the probability of the behavior. So whether we think, you know, removed from the situation, whether we think it's a good thing or a bad thing, that doesn't matter here, what we're talking about when something is a punishment, it means that his decreased the probability of the behavior. And something that's a reinforcer. It means that his, it has increased the probability of the behavior. And so we talked about operant conditioning situation in the late 18 hundreds. It wasn't called operant conditioning then. But Thorndike sort of explored this in Thorndike's puzzle box. In that situation where the cat in the box, the cat did all these behaviors. Eventually, it did the right thing to hit the lever to get out, to get the fish. Any measured. Thorndike's Law of Effect, like how the probability of the cat doing this behavior again increased when it perform this action and got this reward. So it had been done before. But really, this was the sort of way to study this behavior. And that really made the research on operant conditioning takeoff. And it's called a Skinner box or an operant conditioning chamber. And really the key difference is it's hooked up to a thing that's like a telegraph machine where it records, for example, the number of lever presses that a rat makes or something like that. And switches automatically recording the animal's behavior. And so you can do different things to the animal. And then see, does this increase the probability of the letter pressing or does it decrease the probability of the lever pressing? And then you can play with different parameters to see like what kind of reinforcer or punish hers is going to change behavior and how. So in the Skinner Box, when the animal correctly performs some action with pigeon, that's usually a pecking on something. You can see it's operant behavior, it's key pressing, lever pressing, keep pressing, whatever. Okay. And then as I said before, but now it's on a slide for I had the slide, but yeah, so punishment and reward are key. And they're defined, as I said before, entirely on how they affect behavior. So it's considered a reinforcer. If it comes after something like if it follows a tone or follows a light, and it increases the probability of that behavior. And it's a punisher if it follows some sort of stimulus, a tone, or whatever, and the probability of a future behavior decreases. So before you can decide whether something's a punisher or reinforcer, you need to ask, did the behavior increase or decrease? So rate reinforcement. Oh, what's the participation code? What should it be? Don't say anything because I don gamified test. Here you choose the participation code you write on the board. Okay. Further participation code. This is the last time. A little nervous about where the food guy, okay. Alright, great space. So this is the last thing we're gonna have to do this. I'll have my software back on Monday or on Wednesday. Reinforcement, punishment increases behavior, decreases behavior. And so that's sort of one of these axes. And then the other dimension talk about in operant conditioning is whether the reinforcer or punishment is negative or positive. And this can be a little confusing because negative and positive, negative doesn't mean bad. And positive doesn't mean good. Negative here means you're taking something away. And positive means you're adding something. So think about it in math terms, not in like valence turns. And what this is showing is sort of the intersection. So here we have something that we're going to call positive reinforcement. So. In this quadrant, a positive reinforcement is you're observing the behavior increasing. And it's because you've added something. So a desirable outcome occurs as a consequence of a behavior, and then that behavior increases. So lever pressing maybe is the behavior and food is the outcome. And we say that food is a positive reinforcement because we're adding it. So it's positive because we're adding it and it's a reinforcer because the behavior increases. Now, we can have, this is, I think the quadrant that's a little confusing because the terminology is positive punishment. And so positive punishment, punishment is that the behavior decreases. But in this case the behavior is decreasing because because an undesirable outcome occurs, it's added. And so if you press a lever and you get shocked, you're gonna stop pressing the lever. Based on that contingent on that shock, that it's, it's positive because it's something that's being at. The shock is added. Negative reinforcement. Again, it's gonna increase the hater. That's what makes it reinforcement. But now something bad. By bad, I mean something that is going to be, that is going to increase the behavior doesn't occur. So if you're usually shocked, but when you press the lever, you're not shocked. That is negative reinforcement. You do the lever pressing because that negative thing has taken away. And finally, negative punishment. This is something being taken away that you don't want to be taken away. So like food for example. So the behavior of lever pressing decreases because you're not rewarded or not giving food. The food is being taken away when your lever pressing increases. Any questions about those terms? Okay? All right, so let's try this again. No clickers, but just talk about it. So Michelle doesn't like it when her boyfriend, Joe talks, this is my brother and sister-in-law, and this is kind of a true story. So michelle doesn't like it when her boyfriend, Joel talks to other girls at parties. When Joel does this, Michel ignores him all night. Interpret that whoever you want. Eventually Joel stops talking to other girls at parties. What does this an example of? I can see my fill in the blanks. There's going to be maybe a bad choice on the exam. Alright, so talk about this. Yes. Okay. What are you guys think? Yeah. Negative punishment. Ok. So why is it negative? It's negative because something was taken away so Michelle ignore some so she's removing her attention. Yeah. And critically, it's punishment. Not because we interpret it as being bad, but because Joel's behavior stops. Great. How about so it would be in this quadrant. So try now to really imagine the scenario. So if you're gonna write a new example to be considered one of these other four, other three options. So talk to the person sitting next to you, come up with an example. If I ask this scenario, the answer would be a different thing. So like an example for say, positive reinforcement or positive punishment. The task makes sense. Ok. Any soda someone have a scenario, have opposed the scenario, and then will the rest of the class, we'll try to decide what categories and Michelle doesn't like it when Joel talks other girls. So she tells him No sexy times nights. And so this is the tricky one. And then eventually he does stop. Okay. Which would be Yeah, what's running on and on and so on him says is that it's still negative punishment. Is that what you intended? Negative reinforcement. Negative because she's taking time away, which is kind of what I was trying to imply with ignores him all night. And so another way. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So he's going to build upon this alternating or brain brain it. Okay, so Brand who's going to modify it? Oh, oh, oh, I like this. And also very passive aggressive, even more passive aggressive Jose. So instead of ignoring him all night, she is going to now invite all the friends that he doesn't like to the party. That would be PO assuming he stops the behavior because of this, it would be positive punishment. She's adding something. And if punishment because it makes them stop. Attorney Eric, when he doesn't talk to okay. Yes. She doesn't usually watch Game of Thrones them, but she agrees that should watch Game of Thrones with him if he doesn't talk to other parties. And so that would, then he stops the behavior. That would be positive reinforcement says adding this positive thing and it's reinforcement because no, it still does, its punishment still wait, no, no, no, no. Assuming he. So what does this behavior rights? And so yes. So the scenario is sorry, I got confused. This talking to her is the desired behavior. So I think a lot of the lesson here is that it's kinda how you afraid all of these things like can make it one thing or another. So you're adding watching Game of Thrones. He, he stops talking to girls at parties, increases the talking to her behavior, and so it is positive reinforcement. Ok. Any any last one, Sam? Michelle doesn't talk to Joe normally. Okay. Okay. So chill. Okay. This is getting complicated. And he continues his behavior. Oh, right. Right. That's that's complicated. The best when I have them last quarter was I don't I don't remember exactly, but it basically Joanna and Michelle NSA end up as being sweeteners. And like, I don't know, it got weird. Okay. Michelle lectures Joel and he stops talking to girls would be positive punishment. She lectures him. And he talked to more girls already, positive reinforcement, et cetera. Okay. But he's a discriminative. Similarly, this is different than discrimination. So discrimination is you've been trained on the, you know, to, to feel the fluffy bunny. But other fluffy things also elicit this response. Discriminative stimulus is different. So this is in operant conditioning. If something is present, it is basically telling you that this is a trial where there will be a contingency. So let me break that down. So in the case of rat, pressing a lever, pressing with the rat, lever pressing will lead to food only when a light is on. If the light isn't on. Lever pressing doesn't do anything. And so the light here is the discriminative, discriminative stimulus. So when this is true, then it learns this operant conditioning. But in other situations that learning doesn't occur or that association doesn't occur. So some examples are, My husband is much more strict than I am with both the baby and the dog. And so when I'm home, miles will stand and his water table and do all kinds of dangerous things. And I just think it's cute and take pictures of it. And Ryan yells at them and tell them to get down. And so in this case y and same thing with banjo. Banjo, Well, I guess it's a sort of a table theme. Band are also away and the sign on the table. But when Ryan's home, he won't do this because Ryan yells at him. It's a Ryan in the situations the discriminative stimulus, the behavior doesn't happen when there's this thing, president, but all other times it does. Okay? And I think this is kind of intuitive, just like different people act differently in different social environments, right? And a lot about is how they're reinforced. Okay, so there's different schedules of reinforcement. And so how you implement the training, the operant conditioning, the time course and parameters of that is really going to have a dramatic effect on how much the behavior is increased. Decreased. Who's missing a bullet point? Let me jump ahead and then I'll jump back. So two types, continuous reinforcement is going to talk. This can be you can have continuous punishment and can intermittent punishment also, but we're just going to talk about it in terms of reinforcement to keep it simple. So you can have continuous or instrument. And so continuous just means that every time you do the behavior, every time you press the lever, you're rewarded. Every lever press results in food. There's no lever press that happens, that food doesn't follow. And then intermittent is just that lever pressing resulting food, but not all the time. So not every instance is rewarded. Okay, so we're gonna go back to one of these sort of little contingency tables here so far, intermittent reinforcement. So continuous is just it happens every time you do the behavior. But within intermittent reinforcement, you can have different schedules, different schedules for which an outcome happens. And so you can have one-dimension is ratio versus interval. And so ratio refers to how many times you do the behavior. So if you do the behaviour five times and then you're rewarded. And then you do the behaviour five more times and then you're rewarded. That's a ratio schedule. And it's ratio means that it's contingent on the number of times the behavior was performed. This is contrasted with interval, which just means that it's not the number of instances of the behavior. It's the amount of time that has elapsed. So every five minutes, if I press the lever at the five-minute mark, I get a reward. Another five minutes. If I press the lever at the five minute mark, I get a reward. So one is response based and one is time-based. We're going to add two more dimensions to this. Some of these terms can go a little bit hairy. So we also fixed and variable. So fixed memes like the examples that I was just giving. Every fifth time you shoot the basket, you make it. Try four times if that's how you make it. You try four times with a tiny make it every fifth time you're rewarded. Variable means that on average. So on average every fifth time you make it. But sometimes it's the third trial, sometimes the sixth the sixth trial. So if it's an average amounts or time, so it's not that every five minutes you're rewarded. It's on average every five minutes you're rewarded. So fixed ratio. So ratio means that on the x-axis here is the number of repetitions. And so this is what you're seeing there. There's little scallop ie things is behavior. And how up, how high up on the y axis it is, is how much of the behaviour. So it's doing behavior, it's doing the behavior, doing the behavior, the rats pressing the lever, pressing the lever after five, it gets rewarded. And then it's behavior stops temporarily, and then it increases again. Does five take the brake? Does five take the brake? When an animal or a person is on this schedule of recent reinforcement, its fixed interval. So this is after every five minutes, a reward is going to happen. And so the rat, basically, if this kind of scallop pattern in that the rat doesn't nothing until the five-minute mark and it presses the, doesn't have a perfect sense of time. So it starts increasing its lever pressing behavior towards the five minute mark. It gets rewarded them and it stops, and then it gradually ramps up again. I think some real-world kind of examples of this is this perfectly describes my vision research. So I like going to a conference in Florida in May. And I'm not super interested in some of the research that I do in this area. But I really like going to Florida for a week and staying in this resort. And so all year I ignore my vision projects and then like a month before the conference submission is do I ramp up and then I'm rewarded by getting accepted. And then all your I don't do anything. Then I ramp up division research against midterm exams or maybe the same way you don't study, you're not getting rewarded for studying. But when an exam comes, which are like He's equal intervals across the quarter, you ramp up your studying behavior and then you get this reward. Assuming you do well. This one is probably this is the strongest. And so this is a ratio, a variable ratio schedule. And basically what this is is it's variable that you don't know when the reward is going to happen. And it's ratio in that it's contingent on the number of responses that you give. And so a rat pressing a lever, say, we'll get rewarded on average every tenth lever press. Sometimes it'll be the ninth, sometimes it'll be the 12th. On average every tenth. And this is the strongest schedule of reinforcement. So if you want to really condition a behavior to be strong, you use this variable ratio schedule. And it kind of makes sense because in the, in the first two, the animals kinda learning when not responding is ok. But in this case, at any moment in time or response could be rewarded. And so these, this is at the heart of like gambling addictions. And people are very concerned by, I don't know if you play video games, but a lot of people are really concerned about this idea of loot boxes, especially for children who play video games. And it's this idea that, you know, somebody want to explain. We boxes that's more knowledgeable than I am. It's basically a slot machine. Yeah. It's so it's like a slot machine that's potentially like targeted that children. And so with a slot machine, it's variable ratio and that it's not every ten poles the flaw or every 100 pulling the slot machine is gonna give you a reward. But on average, Vegas programs that and say OK, every 1000 holes, every, on average every thousand Poles. We're gonna give you a reward that, you know, it's going to pay off. So you can't just count to 1000 and then get a reward. And this is the same with the loot boxes. So within your own video game, you are presented with this loop box. I think that was how it works. And then you can pay money to open it. Then if you payment and then most of the time it's not something you want. But once in a while, something you really want. How it works. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, so there's a lot of war because like we're looking at here, this is a really, really powerful schedule of reinforcement. And this is being targeted at children. Oftentimes, variable interval. And variable interval is basically a slot machine that like every well, let's say you're not a good example. After every five minutes or reward happens, but it's every five minutes on average. So it's time-based. But it's not it's not like in the scallop shape or it's every five minutes. It's on average every five minutes. And that's also a very strong schedule of reinforcement, cuz you don't know when the reward is coming, but it's a little bit lower because it's time-based, it's not response based. And so when it's response based, and you can increase your behavior to increase your reward, that's the strongest. Okay? So just to put this all on the same graph here. This is sort of the cumulative number of responses for the different types of schedules. 2k, k. So let's do this. There's a real study. So this study, and this is an older study. But 84% of females responded negatively to males when they used overtly sexual pick-up lines. I'm easy. Ru was one of the examples given in the paper. And a small minority of female said that they responded favorably. And so some males may persist. Constantly using these types of pickup line lines, what schedule of reinforcement had they been on? So talk about that. Going to be variable. Leanna saying because if, say it's 16% of women, it's not gonna, that's not going to be evenly distributed over the population. So sometimes you make a tutor, sometimes they might be more spread out. And then why is it a ratio schedule? Yeah, it's contingent on behavior. Yeah, it's how many times he hits on a woman. So it's not like he can't just stay on there and then every fits every five minutes if he hits on a woman, it will happen. It's he could increase the timeframe by just hitting on more women. So it's contingent on his response rate. Great. Ok, one more question. So, so Skinner market, Skinner, marketing Skinner was a behavioralist. We're the rats and Facebook likes or the reward. So from this article, in the 19 thirties, BF Skinner developed the concept of operant conditioning. You put pigeon than rats in a Skinner box. To study how he could modify their behavior. His pigeons pecked at buttons in search of food, we pick a keys for virtual rewards. An email arriving a retweet, thumbs up on a blog post. So if let's take Facebook likes. So if a post, it, making a post, that's how we're defining the behavior is posting on Facebook. And getting at least one like is the reward, the positive reinforcer? What schedule of reinforcement are we on? This one string for? Yep, tenuous reinforcement because this is stepping, stepping back. Let's go back to the definition. It won't. So continuous reinforcement means you're rewarded every single time you do the behavior. And intermittent is that you're rewarded. Not necessarily every time. It could be time base, it could be behavior-based. Kylie it depends. Rights. Yeah. So Kylie thing depends. Depends for different reasons. So you're saying that I think what I'm hearing is, but it depends because maybe the quality of the content that you're posting. And so if you get likes it, and it also depends on your friends, right? Like I have friends that like everything I post they like, right? Answer depends on whether you're being referred reinforced every time or you're not being referred sands. Oh, sorry. We're actually Niko. I think it depends. Yeah. So there's other things other than the quality of the post and in that case, than it would be an intermittent schedule of reinforcement because sometimes by chance and he's going to see it in you're not going to get reinforced, Sam? Uh-huh. Yeah. Yeah. I think I I think that I think what your your switching something here. I think that you're confusing that behavior with reinforcement. And so you're, you're talking about a continuous behavior versus an intermittent behavior. Totally true. What we're talking about is the reinforcement schedule. So do you get not as the behavior continuous, but every time you do the behavior, do you get reinforced every time you go, like every Facebook thing you post, that's continuous versus intermittent only sometimes you get that reward. Yeah. Your reviews. News. Yeah. Right. So so there's all of these different things I think what I'm hearing is there all of these different things that are going to determine whether it's whether you're the type of person that gets continuously or intermittently refer a reenforce. So if you have there's all these factors that are going to make people like it. If you capitalize on all those and get all of these, like every time you post something that's continuous. If not, it's intermittent. Yeah. Sure. Sure. Right. Sure. Yeah. So probably most people most of the time or on an intermittent reinforcement schedule? Theoretically, you could be on a continuous if you got validation every single time. But I think what we're hearing is that most of the time you doped, so it's actually probably most likely an intermittent reinforcement schedule. Okay.