 Hi everyone. Welcome back. We will give it one more minute to people. Is it okay if I ask a question real quick? So about padlet in cognitive in the wild. So if I go, if I use the link on Canvas, it, it'll take me two. But if I try to use my account for whatever reason my like at UCSD made account younger Padlet doesn't have the my COGS 101 be like tab. It just it doesn't have anything for like the tabs. So is that like odd or is that just normal? Like I'm just going to have to go through Canvas to get it. You should have to go through Canvas, get it. Does any other from the student's perspective? Does any Has anybody experience being different? Yeah, it seemed that just does your canvas and then sign in through UCSD. Alright. Thanks. Sure. Okay. Let's get started. So. A few announcements, reminders. So fill out the participation. Choose Your Own Adventure thing linked on Canvas. Do that by Sunday. If you haven't yet, if you changed your mind, you can still fill it out again, will take your most recent response. But your last response to the Sunday is what you're going to be locked into for the rest of the quarter. I will create a column on canvas with your option so that you can check it to make sure I have it recorded properly. And I'll post that on Monday or Tuesday. And then any logistical questions? Before we get started? Yeah. It was just mentioned that there was a Padlet link through Canvas and I'm just curious. I'm not seeing it anywhere obvious. Oh, yeah. It should be. It's titled cognition in the wild week one minute to just be under week one, I think you get the bottom of the canvas page, like scroll all the way down on the modules. So if you go to modules yet, I'll had it separated by April. Usually I'll post it in. I think what I've started doing is just posting it in the module by week. I think that'll be the easiest way for you guys to find it. This one's just a trial run though. So working out login issues and stuff like that. So he didn't submit it or you didn't if you submitted something and you didn't have yourself logged in or something, don't worry about it this week. Ever been able to get credit for this week. We're just trying to work out kinks right now. Any other questions? Yeah, no quiz this week. The quiz will be on material covered this week and it'll be posted on like Monday afternoon and then you'll have until the next Monday before class. So just to clarify one more thing because it sounded odd in my head when I read it on the syllabus. So it's not like you're giving us the quiz and then we have to learn the material for the quizzes due date. It's like you're teaching us material and then the next week for a whole week is you can take it whenever you want to. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Cooking on the previous week's material. Since reading isn't required, I've done in the past where it's like you have to do the reading, take the quizzes, and then we teach the material, but not this quarter. Okay, anything else? Alright, so last time we talked about we started to talk about just this kind of brief high-level overview of the history of studying the mind. How we got to the state of cognitive science today. We kind of walked through this timeline and this idea of introspection. These early approach is yes, we can study the mind through this introspection as method that school of thought received sort of criticism and pushback from the behavioralist. And then this school of behavioralism, a response to, in part a response to that and overlapping with that is this. Cognitive revolution of Bertha, cognitive psychology, cognitive science. We left off talking about what are the things that triggered this cognitive revolution? When we talked about just some key thinkers, some key experiments that started to shift people away from thinking about his behavioralist approach. That behavioralist approach being that you can only study the stimulus response relationship. We can't say anything about what's going on in the black box. And we can't talk about mental representation. We can't invoke these sort of ideas like beliefs and feelings and things like that. We talked about Tolman and his study of rats, navigation behavior and how he started to use this term cognitive maps. This idea that the rats had this representation of the physical space. And that might seem like a very bland idea to us today. But it was really revolutionary in the way in shifting thinking from this behavioralist stimulus response relationship and starting to talk about these mental representations. And then Chomsky, his response to people like BF Skinner claims that thing, complex human behaviors like language, could be learned through this punishment and reward, operant conditioning sort of structure. When we started to talk about the, another thing that kinda coincided with this cognitive revolution or helped spur the cognitive revolution and the sort of way that we started thinking about cognition was the advent of the digital computer. And it's not that we believed today that the human brain works like a digital computer. It's more just this idea that we started to think about the mind as an information, information processing system. Early on we did take a more direct digital computer type analogy. But the thing that has kinda lingered is this idea that the brain as an information processing system. And it was just a new way of thinking about the mind. Cognitive scientists started to actually adopt the same sort of representation of processes that computer scientists were using. Some computer scientists use flow diagrams to talk about computer processors. You have an input processor, some memory unit, some rhythmic arithmetic unit that does some computation and output. And cognitive models of cognition started to take this process model flow diagram form, reflecting this idea that we're thinking about things in this he's information processing terms. Broadbent. It's a, it's a famous classic model, brightens filter model of attention. This idea that when we get an incoming message, there's first this sort of filter, it selects which message to attend to. For further processing. Attention models have gotten more complex and evolved from this and we'll talk about them in more detail when we talk about attention. But this is one of the first sort of flow diagram models in applying these ideas to the mind. And another sort of thing that, whoops, sorry. Another sort of thing that happened at this time was its connection to AI. This idea of making a machine behave in ways that we would call intelligent. And so the birthday of cognitive science is thought to be in 1956. And there's a summer research project, this 10-week sort of symposium where all these different thinkers from all of these different fields kinda came together. It was where I lost my house. The, it was in this year at this MIC symposium for information processing that the logic theorist was first introduced. And it was sort of the first kind of machine that could be thought of as doing an intelligent behaviour. It wasn't just doing a computation, but they had programmed it to actually write mathematical proofs. Alright, so those are sort of some of the things that were happening in the cognitive revolution. Some of the just shifts in the paradigms and ways of thinking. And one key shift was, so taking a step back. So there's sort of two ideas in cognitive science, AI, cognitive psychology. One is that we must study the mental world to understand behavior. That is a position that we take today. But we also believe that we cannot study the mental world directly. And so these two position seems somewhat maybe contradictory. How is it that we need to study the mental world, but we can't study it directly. How do we resolve that? And so B40, about resolving that, I just want to walk through sort of a case study, a early experiment in the 19 seventies, one of the most classic experiments in cognitive science. Shepherding melts rankings. I've pretty one. So what they had research participants do was they would present them with these two different shapes. And the question would be, are they the same or are they different? And people will just have to respond same or different? Cuz when the same or different. It's the same. Yeah. Yeah. Because people say he said how about this one? How about this one thing because wounds Freund. Anyway, so what they would do is they would give people these shapes, ask them the same or different. And what they manipulated was what they called the angle of rotation. So how many of the ships through physical space would you have to turn the object to orient object a with object B? And so that was angular rotation. How many degrees? 0 degrees would be, was that from the same perspective? And what they found is this really strikingly linear relationship between the angle of rotation and the person's action time. And this might seem sort of trivial to us today, but it was a really big breakthrough for a lot of different reasons. One, it was really just this kind of first study of being able to have empirically study this idea of mental imagery. It led to this idea that recreate this visual image in our mind and the app in the absence of a physical visual stimulus, right? We're taking visual object that we're looking at, creating a mental representation of that visit visual object without it actually being president as a stimulus is a quantitative measure of mental imagery. And this is sort of this, one of the first kind of a new approaches to studying mental processes, right? And what this study is an example of is the approach that we kind of take in cognitive science. An approach that reconciles these two seemingly contradictory statements. We must study the mental world to understand behavior, but we can't study them intraoral directly. So we're not where we want to study mental visual imagery, but we're not studying it directly. We're, we're using reaction time. We're manipulating angle of rotation using reaction time to be able to collect data, collect an output, a response, and make inferences about what's going on in the black box based on that outfit out. But we're not seeing mental imagery directly. Even if we're doing an fMRI, we're not seeing mental image directly, right? There's all kinds of inferential steps that we're taking in-between the manipulation and the actual data that we get from FMRI, right? And so this is known as the transcendental method. It's been around for a really long time. Mocking up caught was the philosopher who described the transcendental method. And it's, it's a type of theorizing. And the idea is you first observe the effects of a process. So for example, reaction time. And then you ask what process likely existed in order to produce these effects. So a detective sees a size 11 shoe print at the scene of a crime. It's a deductive reasoning to say that the criminal worse Eisleben shoe. It's an inductive reasoning. It's inference to the best explanation. You walk out in the morning and you see that your grasses wet but the sidewalk isn't wet. Do you think, you know it was rain or do you think that it was a sprinkler? You didn't see or observe the sprinkler directly. But through induction, through this transcendental method. The most likely thing that have produced this result is that it was the sprinkler not rain. And it's not just in behavioral sciences that we use the transcendental method, even in quantum physics, right? We haven't looked at an electron directly. It's sort of, I don't know anything about physics, but it's, you know, changes in the magnetic field or, or it leaves all of these sort of other consequences of electron behavior that we measure. We're not measuring the electron directly. So that's the transcendental method. And it's sort of a, reconciles those two ideas and, and it's just sort of a shift, a paradigm shift in the way we're thinking about things in this cognitive revolution. Some other things that came at this time are what are called cognitive models. So representations of either structure or processes. So these are just some structural models. They're sort of simplified version, simplified ripple representations to sort of make a complicated structure or process. Simpler models of locations into different brain structures. How systems in the visual system are connected. This looks really complicated, but it's a much simplified version of how things actually are. So these are like structure models, and of course, like I said, they're representations, they're meant to simplify something more complicated. So George Box of statisticians and essentially all models are wrong. But some models are useful. Models are just meant to sort of highlight key ideas or question comment. So those are structural models. We often use what are called process models. And so same idea simplify a more complex idea. But process models represent as obviously a process, some process that's involved in a proposed cockpit cognitive mechanism. So this is an early model of memory. It's been changed a lot since this early. The Atkins shift for a model of a memory. But the idea is you have this, these different boxes represent different processes. The arrows represent how they're connected. Input, you have sensory memory which stores things in the really short term. It's transferred to short-term memory. It's kept around in short, short-term memory by controlled process of rehearsal. And that short-term memory can be then store into long term memory. You can pull things from long-term memory back out into short-term memory. So that's a simple process model. Alright, so just to sort of solidify some of the stuff we talked about yesterday and today. Try this question. What While we're here for students that are doing asynchronous, LOS will come up next week, starting next week or after this class. They'll come up, they'll come up starting next week. But you can still participate in the poll here table. But the sharp starting next week after class. So the TAs will be creating them as class progresses and then post them after class. I could give you add it. And for those of you who do see the poll, that 96% of you that do you see the pole? What, how does it show up for you just as popped up on your screen? Yes. Yeah. I think it depends on what type of device you're using, something like, here's your iPad, it pops up like a little bar refusing Windows or Mac. Sometimes it is possible in the side so that it doesn't cover the screen. Got it. So the couple of people that couldn't see the poll. Let's just wait and see if it's reoccurring issue or not and we'll deal with it. Benefits are reoccurring issue. Okay. All right. So does somebody want to make an argument for one of these a, B, C, or D? So somebody's asking these type of questions will be expecting on the quiz. So yes. But the caveat is that they seem questions like this see more difficult on the quiz when they're out of context, right? So this we know we've been talking about yesterday and today. And so even though the question difficulty will be the same and similar types of questions, it'll be a little bit more difficult when it's out of context. I pick B because I thought, I believe introspection is when you are looking at your own analysis like you look how you act in certain situations. Yeah, absolutely. So yeah, so this was the answer to this would be introspection. And I just happened last time. I think 19% of people chose a. And it's just because we're just talking about the transcendental method. It's introspection. So the idea that Shawn is analyzing his own mental behaviors, looking at his own thoughts and feelings and trying to classify them without interpretation. So that's a key, that's sort of the definition of what the introspective method is. Why is this not the transcendental method? What is the transcendental method? From what I've learned so far is that the transcendental method, if you look at me like effects after and Sean doesn't know the effects of his, like not remembering the names. So we can't really like study because all he knows he doesn't remember names. So there's Right. Yeah, I really look at and so you had the transcendental method as described as yeah, like you said, there's this output, there is this data that we're using and we're making a guess based on that data, what the process was that produced that data? Yeah, absolutely. Good as something. So is it also partially not partially because he didn't because this like observation of not remembering names was not quantified. How would it change? Would it change if Phil was quantified, if he lets Sali took note of every single person here, remember that every time he remembered or not? Yeah. Yeah. And you could I mean, you could do an experiment like what are the conditions under which we remember people's names? And let's say we sort of put some people in a, in a stressful situation versus people in a non-stressful situation. And we see how many names they remember. We see that in the stressful condition they remember less and in the non-stressful condition they remember more. We have that data and we infer based on that data that there's something about the stressful situation that's interfering with the memory process or whatever. Yeah. Yes, you could definitely take this question and turn it into an experimental manipulation that manipulate something, gets data and makes an inference back to, to the process for sure. But it had to be other people. Not, not necessarily. So like Ebbinghaus is, experiments are technically a trends and dental method. It's, it's not the best experimental design, but yeah, you could still do an experiment on yourself and how to be the trends and that got me, okay. We just don't do it that way. Usually. I'm a question, yeah, though for the transcendental method, is that like strict, we form manipulated experiments? Or is it also failing natural observation of processes? It can be a natural observation and processes to yeah, though, really anything where you're, you're not observing the phenomenon directly, but you're using some sort of data or output to make a guess about the process. Ok, yeah, yeah, great question. Alright, let's try this one. Whoops. Professor, I just had a question about the last option or last question which we did. The doc will also be, it could have been like Because we have output. But if he thought about it like, oh, what exactly happened last night that I could prevented me from remembering the names, then it would not have been introspection. But over here because he's consciously at the party noticing what he's doing. That's why it's B, right? Right? Yes. You could use, you could use, and you could use a transcendental approach with an introspective approach. He could probably combine those ideas in some way. Yeah. Thank you. Alright, so referencing the question from above, who would disagree with the validity of this approach? So let's actually talk about this break out rooms climate split response here. I feel like you're going into breakout rooms. Okay. So talk about remote. Open. Grab the file that I just posted first. Gn. Oh, hey, just assign you to room two. When did you take this class? I pick named Laocoon turn in winter. We know our final word. Part of it impacted by bidding here. Yeah, yeah. It's crazy. Child. I was just thinking that like, I don't know why, but it's just taking For some reason class. It takes so much longer online. I think it's just like all the lake different mechanics of this. Like this was like the first ten minutes of class last year. Ok. I'm going to shut this. I guess maybe because you have to gotta break out rooms and stuff to talk to people. Submitting the polygon. Yeah. Click it again. If whether you change your mind or nightclub again. It actually improved a little bit, but the, there's a dead split between a and C. So somebody might make an argument for either. I think it's just a because I mean, I'm kinda just going off of the notes I had from last time, but from what we were learning like the beginning of understanding about mental processes was with the introspection is saying that we can study mental processes in the mind. And then the behaviorists were sort of going against that saying no we can't. And so they would obviously disagree with the introspection lists. And then I thought that when we get to modern cognitive psychology, that's sort of a way to go back to what the introspection isn't what those earlier people were thinking about studying mental processes. So that's why I picked just a Yeah, and you're definitely right that the behavioralist were the first ones to sort of like respond to this. And it was, it was definitely their perspective that the introspection, as you can't look directly in the mind. Let me ask you this question. So if I tried to publish a paper in the Journal of Cognitive Science today with this method. Wouldn't get published? No. It would be in a philosophy journal. It might be in a philosophy journal named it. Maybe, right? So a modern cognitive science, since I didn't set you up for this, I didn't tell you this is part of the hit. Very right. But just from what you know about our approaches, we probably, we don't agree with that sort of. We want data. We want to use this transcendental method. We want to do experiments. Not necessarily just use this introspective method. So the behavioralist disagreed with introspection just because they said you can't look inside the black box. But cognitive scientists say we can look inside the black box or we can make statements about the blackbox. We just need to use more sophisticated inductive reasoning methods than introspection. Any questions about that? I'm glad you asked this question because I think it helped kind of clarify either quick question. Sure. Is one of the principles I just like the second principally or maybe was first known for cognitive psychology. And slide, it said that the perspective is that you can't study these process used directly. Does that somehow? Titus? Hm. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. You can't we're not, you can't directly study it. The only way we have direct access to mental processes, right, is through our own introspection, right? And this will, but there's a lot of things that we can't study directly like the electron example, right? Where we use a lot of the consequences of electron behavior to make inferences about the properties without being able to observe them directly rate. Okay? Yeah. All right. So let's let's skip this question just because that last for a long time. So we're gonna start talking about some more. So, so far this is just kinda been broad contextual introduction to where this class, it's in the feel old and. Kind of a purchase that we're going to be taking how we got here. We're going to talk this next week about this idea of implicit learning. And this is from a chapter that I posted a PDF online. So it's not technically considered cognitive psychology. We're, it's this ideas from a journalism that a lot of these ideas are from behavioralism. And their great ideas, they're robust phenomenon that are reproducible. There are still very alive today. We've just moved on saying there's more that we can do, not just the stimulus response relationship, but, but the behavioralist approach is still very, has a lot of fruit offer. Are they engaging, right? So what is learning? What if we define it as profiting from experience? Would anybody have an issue with this definition? Profiting from experience? Yeah. Cuz your experience could be wrong. Collectively, right? So, so the, so the issue with the word profiting are benefiting well and then experiences subjective as well. Sure, sure, yes. So this idea of profiting from experience is suggesting that yeah, that your experience is valid, that you're learning something good, that the outcome is positive. But there's examples like phobias or gambling addiction, things like that, that you are behaviour has changed but it's not necessarily an adaptive or beneficial change. So we'll get rid of that word, profiting from experience. Another definition that has been proposed is any behavioral change based on experience. Any issue with this definition? Oh, my hand. And I named them at what? Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So any behavioral change based on experience Donovan saying this or that behavior OS perspective in a sense, you're defining it explicitly by behavioral change, right? Even though most of the time we do measure learning by behavioral changes, there's, sometimes there's no obvious performance change. I'm going to disable annotations for others. And so this is kind of one way that we'll think about it in this class. So we'll think of it as storage of information in memory as a consequence of some experience. So some very broad sort of definition. I'm professor. Yeah, for the like, the experience part of that definition. Does experience like also count as like you learning from someone who experience something? Absolutely. Any yeah. Absolutely. So observational learning? Yeah. Anything that Enters your environment, which another person telling you that for sure. Yeah. Great question. And this is actually a step that was debated for a long time. And behavioralism was like, can we learn from other people's experience? Can we learn from hurting somebody else doing something? And the answer is yes, we can. But that was it wasn't open question at some point. I'm going to try to clear. Why not. So again, it was a question in, in, in animal here mean like pan around with some of the classic studies will enter rattler. Does that to actually do the behavior is an brightly condition sort of thing. Or can you learn from just witnessing it? So they'd like take a rat and put it on top of another rat running a maze. The rat running the maze learns the nation, but does the rat riding through the maze learn how to navigate those kinds of questions. Okay, so before I talk about this, we're talking about is different. What does implicit memory versus explicit memory? We're going to talk about this for weeks, but just as an introduction, we have long-term memory. Long-term memory is story information over periods of time. So if I ask you to remember the very first poll question in the class today, it was, you know, 30 minutes ago. But that's still considered long-term memory, assuming that you haven't been in consciously rehearsing and activating that memory the entire time if it left conscious awareness and is brought back into conscious awareness, considered long-term memory. And we have two forms of long-term memory. So explicit memory or declarative memory. Things that were we can consciously and report and be aware of. So what my middle name is, what I had for lunch today. These are explicit declarative memories. And then we have implicit non-declarative memories. So It's things that are stored in long-term memory that we're not bringing. It's not consciously recall. So things like how to ride a bike. Skills will talk about classical conditioning. The association between a bell ringing and salivating for food. Operant conditioning. You get a lot of likes on Instagram. And so you are more likely to, to post things on Instagram, right? And if you have likes her followers or I don't know, priming, you hear a word and so you're more likely to, or you're, you. Our sort of primed with one category of your prime. You're given the word money, and then you're shown the word bank. Do you interpret it as the financial institution or do you interpreted it as like a river bank? What word you saw earlier is going to influence that interpretation. So that's an example of priming. So these are all types of implicit learning, non-declarative memory. So about that we'll be talking about in the next week of class. And then we'll spend a long time on explicit declarative memories later on in the course. So we'll talk about the biological backdrop for learning. We'll talk about behavioralist perspectives, classical conditioning and operant conditioning. And then as Leanna brought up observational learning, learning from witnessing somebody else do something. And then statistical learning, learning about regularities and our environment, things like language learning and stuff like that. So somebody's asking what is an example of explicit and implicit learning? So an example of explicit learning would be, I'm going to test you on this material on the quiz next week. That's explicit learning. You typing in your responses to the quiz. Actually it's going to be multiple choice. But if you were to type in your responses to the quiz, it would be implicit learning that you know how to type on a keyboard. Doesn't help. I have a question. So say you wanted to know how to drive from UCSD to somewhere else on wood door directions like where it's a turn aware and would stop signs are be implicit or explicit or is it depended on peddled upstage? Yeah, it depends on the stage. You definitely, when you're beginning to learn something like that, it's explicit, right? If you're using Google Maps or your, you know, following a map or directions, it says conscious process. And then probably the first few times you do it, you're drawing on this explicit memory, maybe the name of a street. But then you can wave also had the experience where you're driving like someplace very familiar, like from work to home or something like that and you kind of stop paying attention and then you just, you're there, right? That sort of navigation would be more of an implicit sort of thing. The fact that, you know, like traffic laws and when to stop at a stop light or when you have the right or will be considered the implicit part of that. Absolutely. Yep. So so sorry, good guy. Explicit. Lake upstream or Enrique SRI was the green circle is around Conrad For a second. I thought it was him. That phone says explicit, like you have to actively be thinking about it in an implicit is like it's second nature. Yeah. Kind of it's, it's I like the term declarative versus non-declarative. So declared it and you could declare it or verbalize it. Whereas non-declarative means it's not something you can verbalize. Hello, can I, which I didn't. All implicit learning come from early. All inputs actually come from explicit like actions. They can all rights? Not necessarily. Yeah, no, that's a great question. So for somebody like riding a bike, maybe your verbal instructions at first and you recite those verbal instructions and maybe it transfers to being able to do it. Or like I learned to sail, I'm not very good at it, but I learned from a book. And then I like explicitly said the stuff to myself. And then eventually I became implicit because I could just do it without reciting that the information that I read in a book. So it can go from explicit to implicit. But not always have things like, you know, every time, like a belt like the classical conditioning is example of a bell rings and you start to salivate, that you can never consciously make an association between two things happening. And still form is automatic association between them even though it was never explicit. And that's kind of like due to like similarities was like different food items. So it's not necessarily being exposed to that original food. I don't, but you get exposed to food items similar to that and then you have the same reaction to that new eeh. Eeh. Yeah, I think that's a good a good like I'm taste aversion. I think you're talking about like where you get sick based on a food you might yet you may like explicitly, you know, hat like you might not explicit. We have this knowledge, like the potato salad at the barbecue was bad and therefore that's what made me sick. That would be explicit knowledge. But implicit knowledge would be like, I eat the potato, you're not conscious of best potatoes, how it happened first, the knowledge I have in seconds, you form a link between those and you just are rebel. You just have a revulsion to the potato salad, even though you might not be able to explicitly say why. Yeah, and we'll talk about that distinction and a lot more detail to, I mean, we just want to orient you to like this implicit idea that will be talking about now, but we'll make the distinction. We're clearly able to call that the potato salad example. Okay, good of act. So learning is hard. Learning what goes with what? There's thousands of possible associations in our environment all the time. A really kind of embarrassing example for me is for my lack of cultural knowledge, is I got this advertisement when I first was pregnant with Miles. And I was starting to look at like daycare options, things like that. I got these advertisements for NO pair. And so I'll just add a few times. And I thought that an old pair was a small mustache because I had no idea or no parallel just from this image. So welcome an apparent your life into your heart. And so I thought it was advertising smell mustaches and no pair as a nanny, I later learned. But you can see why there's all these potential relationships that we can form between items in the world that could be wrong. And so one solution we're all getting O'Hara Buwei. One solution is that we're born with certain biases. Make learning some things that are biologically important for our survival easier. And these biases that we have than we used to bootstrap or sort of build from to bolster future learning. So I think we'll just end here. But just to kind of connect back to like, why I'm telling you this, these certain biases, there's all these different things, all these different types of biases that we, that we have that help bootstrap learning that are inborn. And then next time we'll start off by talking about what those different biases are. Things like simple reflexes, orienting response, looking to where noise is, watching somebody's eye movement when they're talking. Things that help us learn from our environment that we have this inborn tendency towards. Okay, so I will hang out here for the next few minutes to answer any questions that you have. Otherwise, I'll see you on Monday. You guys, how I'm going to begin to move you state it like sorry, you've already stated it like a 100 times. What is the last day to sign up for the zaps? Well, I've wondered about this and deal with it. At least 2k sign is due next Friday, so a week from today through on the 15? Yeah. Thank you. I was wondering I know you went over several times. Could I get like, just look at the simplest version of like implicit and explicit, like stand alone, but sort of like the difference between the two. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So X explicit learning is learning that you are consciously aware of, that you could declare, but you could verbally describe to someone else. So things like what you had for lunch today, implicit learning or or facts that you don't know where you got that information, but you know, you know it. So like if I ask you what is the capital of California? You'd be able to tell me or declare what the capital of California is. Ok, Let's sort of start or continue, continue. So implicit learning is just learning that, that you, things you know how to do, but you can't necessarily verbalize. So classical. So a food aversion. You really don't like a certain type of food because at some point in the past, it made you sick. You might not remember the time in particular that it made you sick. You might just dislike and not know why. So it's explicit is you see yourself learning it, whereas implicit is you have a harder time or you don't see yourself learning something like getting a stomach ache an hour after eating a food. You subconsciously learn that the food is probably the cause of like your discomfort and you avoid potato salad, you know. Yeah, yeah, that is one example. Another example is the thing just like typing, right? They get some right to tight. And you I at least I did where you had to put your fingers on the keys and then you practice moving your fingers. And like that was a very explicit process. Like what finger to move to what key. But implicit way. And you couldn't really describe to somebody like I could tell you like put your pinky on the a and if you want to type the queue, lift your pinky up and then touch the Q. That would be an explicit verbalization, but you're not doing that in your head when you're typing, you're just doing it. So like things like skills. Riding a bike is the classical example. I could tell. I steps I could verbalize, can verbalize how to ride a bike, but that's not the same as riding a bike. Lots. So I got like going to traffic school when you're when you're doing when you're getting your license or when you're getting your permanent. Like learning red means stop verses you feeling that rush hour feeling where you just traveled 20 miles without realizing it and get it at home is the second part's the implicit, but the first part when you learned initially if the x plus so yep, yep, absolutely. I see red light. I need to put might like like my son who's going through that right now. A red light means stop. Light means go. And I'm just like thinking about something else. My foot's going onto the pedal, right? Right, right. It's, it's so complicated, but you just learn for Muslim and we had to do it. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Other questions. So there's someone giving. Okay. Thank you. I'll just go quick. So as long as you cite, I guess getting a little I guess I realized there's a lot of things that are difficult to explain, but not necessarily like you do it, but then you don't know exactly how to verbalize it. So we have the example of something that's implicit and to teach it well, you also need to be able to make it x. Yeah. Takes two there's something yeah. Yeah. And so there's something that you're going to teach somebody how to play guitar or something like that. Like there's some things that are on sort of a, that can be verbalized, but it's difficult to verbalize them. And at some point when you were learning it was probably explicit, but then you learned it. And then so going back to it, being explicit is difficult. That's, that's, it can be it can be that. It can also be things like a puff of air, bell sounds in a puff of air squirts out and you blink your eye and you've never explicitly learn that it's just an automatic reaction that never was explicit. So you can, you can have times when it was explicit and it became implicit. And you can have times where it just has always been explicit. What do you mean by explicit? Isn't the air blowing in your eye part? Sorry. I misspoke. I misspoke. Yeah. Always been implicit. I see. So would I guess the curious thing is like teaching strengthens your knowledge. So then, is it the process of transferring between implicit and explicit that might be improving your own learning on expanding it's someone else or Yeah, that's a good question. I think it depends on the content, right? So one of the reasons I think that teaching makes you, I've experiences more with statistics than with anything else, is when you teach something. In order to explain it to somebody else, you, you can't have any gaps in knowledge. And so I think sometimes we have to teach something to somebody else. It makes you aware of the gaps in your knowledge that you were aware of previously. I don't know if, say somebody who's like a master could perished, will they be better? Will they become better at playing the guitar if they have to teach somebody this implicit scale in an exclusively, I don't I don't know the answer to that. I don't know. My guess is no. I'd like I feel like it's a different thing. But sometimes when things become not explicit is when you get better at them, right? When it stops being explicit. Not knowing that, you know, essentially Yeah, yeah, yeah. Becoming automatic, I think is another eight interbedded. Other questions. No shirt underneath. My Arlen WHO? Tell, cook. Cool. Thank you. Waste all related. Hello. So often when talking about long-term memory, I think a term that gets thrown around this procedural memory and implicit memory always procedural or is it or can it be other thing? Sequence there? Yeah, no procedural memory would be a sub o a sub category. Implicit memory. Use. Because I, usually when I talk like when I think of implicit memory, I just confuse the two. Yeah. I just want to be extra clear on that and he totally yeah. And so procedure, there are huge overlap. Procedural Memory is a type of implicit memory. Riding your bike, playing guitar, procedural memories. But things like classical conditioning would not be, it would be implicit, but not Pedro. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. Professor, I had a question about back to the implicit stuff for a second. The memory. Sure. So is the main or other than muscle memory is the difference most articulation between the two? They didn't ability to verbalize? Yes. For the most part, that's a safe distinction to make. And I had another question about black box because you kind of mentioned that earlier. Yeah, sure. So behaviorists would mostly would subscribe to that. They would think that there's a black box and not touch it at all, right? Yeah, exactly. Yeah. And yeah, and with the same apply to like the transcendental method. No. Transcendental My than I think thinking about it in the black box is a good, you know, is a good way to think about it, is that transcendental method would be that behavior. You can't talk about what's happening to my boss. The transcendental method is that you put in as inputs. And you get this output. And from the input and the output, you can make a guess about what happened to it. Oh, and the blackbox. Oh, okay. Yeah. That's I should I should go back to that because I think that using the black box and like what, that helps a lot for the transcendental method. Okay, good luck epochs. Oh, I'll restate that on Monday because I think that that didn't help. And I mean and how effective is that? Because typically what the blackbox thing is, the reason you have it as a black box, because it's too difficult right there. That's what the behaviorists to it. So that it's just impossible. That's just, and it's and it's impossible. Yeah, it's successful. So Alex wants me to repeat the thing about the black box. So the thing about the black box is that the behavioral has just said there's the stimulus, that's the input. And there is a response that's the output. And we can't talk about what happens in the black box, the transcendental method or even a cognitive science approaches that we have an input, we have an output and we can't directly observe what's going on in the black box, but we can make a guess about given given what we put in and given how it came out, we can make a guess about a process that might have happened inside. Yeah, so that's all it means to be the transcendental mother didn't. Yeah, it's, it's fruitful. It's, it's the kind of thing where we can be wrong about the process, but it helps us tell a state something and then you can make another test about based on that theories I'm trying to think of a example of. So I assume you would need a least, some fundamental knowledge around a subject or a problem to use the transcendental method. Because without it, you can start really simple, right? Like Yeah. So, so it, usually how it works is you have a very bigger, broader abstract question. Are very non-abstract, a very broad question. And then, for example, like does everything reach conscious attention? Does everything reach attentional awareness or does not everything reach attentional awareness? And then you can do some experiments at o not everything reaches attentional awareness. What are some of the factors that depend on whether it will reach attention or not. Or words that are familiar to you more likely to reach your attention and words that aren't familiar to you. Oh, things that are more familiar to you are more likely to reach attentional awareness. What does that say about the process? Oh, maybe words that are familiar to you are more activated already and maybe words need to reach a certain activation level to reach consciousness. And so you can start big with not a lot of knowledge. That's how the field of psych, psychology and cognitive science has progressed. You ask these big philosophical questions. You can answer and then you continue to kind of narrow down the questions and make more refined predictions, have more refined models that are processes you propose. So it's kinda like and all the subcategories are also found or sub questions and answers are all found through the same method, right? Exactly. Yeah. Oh, you're narrowing it down just like when when a scientist called incremental, right? You ask a big question and then it reveals this and oh, we can ask a more nuanced question. Gotcha. Alright. Thank you. You're welcome. Have a good weekend. Yeah. You too. Rates. There's not anymore questions. I'm Anna and being alright, see you guys later.