 Hey everyone. We're still four minutes before class starts, but I just wanted to start talking so that I could make sure my sound is working. Okay. Can someone give me a thumbs up if you can hear me? Great. Yes. A Happy New Year, everyone. Hopefully this year will be a bit better overall for everyone then last year, does anyone have any interesting or Weird New Year's resolutions or goals? Sleeker? Fix your sleep schedule. Well, not too bad. You can just move it back ten minutes every day. The only way I can fix my sleep schedule is to I can't make myself go to bed earlier, but I can set an alarm for like four AM and just forced myself to be exhausted. It's the only way I've ever been able to change it. And then having a two-year-old just naturally does that for you. Anyone else? I'm going to try to do the six pack of peaks. The San Diego six pack of peaks is here, which is like their sixth tallest mountains or whatever in San Diego. Getting out of bed. One trick I have for the sleep schedule is I get a bucket called Temptation Bundling, where you take something you don't want to do necessarily and you really like get a book. And you know, not like either a Kindle that has like the right light settings or like a physical book. And get one that you really want to read. And don't let yourself read it until you're in bed ready to go to sleep. That has helped me. Oh, definitely the Six Pack and peaks separately. Spread it over a year. I'm not in great shape. Oh my god. Back-to-back days crazy. Okay. We're gonna give it just a couple more minutes. I'll probably start actually talking about class too, to give people a little time to come in. I always have these New Year's resolutions that are like SMS for self-improvement, thing like I drink or water, get better sleep, how it better work schedule. And my husband always I always want to have a New Year's resolution. And he's always like this here. I'm going to buy myself more nice things are last year, it was this year. I'm going to only drink the finance quality coffee. It's like okay. Based fixed to them and I don't so. Francisco was telling me that the piazza is perfect. I will fix it. For those of you who are just coming in, as I said a second ago, I'm going to give it to like TiO2 to two or three to let people kinda trickle in. Where at 176, so far there's 350 people enrolled in the class. A student has pointed out the piazza link goes wrong, so I'm fixing that. Mm-hm. Okay, that piazza link should be working now. Ok. So welcome. For those of you who just arrived as give it a few extra minutes. I'm Happy New Year. Hopefully this year is better than last one for most people. So hey, I'm really just going to talk about the syllabus, expectations, just logistical stuff. I'll do a really brief overview of the types of topics we're gonna talk about in this class that are really light day over all. Ok, press saw and you guys can see my slides in here me. Okay. Great. Alright, so introductions, I'll first, I'll just tell you a little bit about myself. Sorry if you have to hear this again, if you're in my 111 class. Banjo, I forgot to put it in the garage. So ID research on all kinds of different topics. I have a degree in experimental psychology from the psychology department here at UCSD. I also did my undergraduate here at UCSD. I've so thankful that they hire me to work at UCSD because I didn't want to leave. I've done research on visual cognition, its overlap with social cognition. Things like this cheerleader effect, the people, the idea that people are more attractive in a group compared two alone for visual cognition reasons. I didn't. Others psychology work on humor, gender differences in humor. These are the, sort of the fun topics that I really like because I got a lot of media attention and people are really interested. And then I did my dissertation on more, a little bit more nitty-gritty modeling, tight, often social attribution. Questions like how is it that we make inferences about other people's internal qualities? So when I see a person do a particular behavior in a particular situation, how do I weigh these different factors? You know, obviously on the person's internal qualities, their disposition, their personality, their values are going to influence how they behave. But of course, the external circumstances, the situation that they're in is also going to influence and interact with those qualities to determine how they're going to behave. So how is it that we go about making inferences about people given those undetermined variables. So I used to say, I spent a lot of my time, most of my time here and the Cognitive Science Building. And to stop by anytime because I'm always here clearly that is not true anymore. It's not true. Reasons of the pandemic and I'm working at home. It's also not true because of this guy. So I spend a lot more time not working now. This is my son, Miles, he's two years old. I spent a lot more of my time doing things like having pretend Happy birthday to you, Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Pretend. He asked him yes. Ted birthday like every day. So that takes a lot of my time. As I said, I got my PhD here at UCSD and moral psychology with an emphasis on cognitive psychology. And that's a lot of the content that's covered in this class. I also teach statistics and sensation and perception. Things are a little bit more outside my wheelhouse. So this is more or less that I'm the most sort of expert here. But again, huge field. So there's of course going to be stuff that I probably questions I probably can't answer. But this is my main area of focus. And then I want, wanted to also the teaching team, those of you who are present. And let me see if I can do gallery view and to just introduce your cell phones. And we'll start with Sean if he's here. But before British yourself, I want, I'm going to have surprise, important question that I'm an ascii, old answer. Which is, how many people have seen or read the books? The Harry Potter books or movies do like a thumbs up. So in Harry Potter there's something called a Petronas, which is like your spirit animal, sort of analogous to a spirit animal. It's a charm where you sort of conjure up sort of this animal that protects you. So I'm going to ask that to tell us what their Patronas or spirit animal would be. You hear Sean? Yeah. Younger. Hi. I'm Sean. I have a fifth year student in the cognitive science department. That's a good question. I think my train with terrible question. I'd probably be a cat like at one. And then cost of our youth around. Ahmed, I want to ask you is, how can you pronounce your name for me again? Like I think I like oscillate between different pronunciations. So it's cost stuff. I see you again next footer. So Hi guys. I'm cost of an oddity in this course. So basically I'm actually from the EC Department and I'm majoring in machine learning and data science. And of basically building under drew for the past three quarters, including this one, they still can't finances namesake. That's fine. That's so so basically yeah. So as you can see from the DPI Play-doh, I play the guitar. And my other than that, my hobbies are reading books and going out of it, which is probably gone down a little note because of abandonment. And I had to choose a spirit animal. I think I'd say I think I'd say I'm a dog again, for no particular reason other than the fact that they are my favorite animal. Yes. Oh yeah. This is great. I have a good balance of TAs, a cat, and a dog. It's I feel like that's a good. And then these are the instructional assistance. Do you guys want to just go in order as presented on the slide? If you're around. Hi guys. I'm EDI links. So I'm a fourth-year cognitive science were specialized in designing interaction. And I'm also majoring visual art. So if I chose a spirit animal, I will choose red panda, the edges, so Q. Thank you. Gary, alison, And how about you? Yeah. So my name is Allison Compton and I am a cognitive science major with a specialization in design and interaction. And I would say my spirit animal is a slot. Okay? Any particular reason? I just think they're cute and link airline really slow a bit because I heard that they swim really faster. Is that true? I didn't know that. Look it up. I'm not sure. But you should probably know that if it's your spirit animal. All right, thanks guys. And now I'm going to make you guys talk to each other. I want this class to be sort of casual and comfortable and interactive. So I figure I should jump right into this. So question for you to talk about. I'm going to open up some breakout rooms. What is your in the spirit of this being learning memory, attention class? What is your earliest memory? Turn on your video in the break room with you if you can. If you feel comfortable doing that, it definitely makes it a more pleasant experience, more social ignorance. If you don't want to, of course, you don't have to remember that in a few minutes. Go ahead and click on the ball. There's been like office hours rather than talking freely. Ten minutes in the students. Excuse me, I think I can hear you click into the poll if you haven't yet. Some modal response being three to four years old. Yeah, this is actually consistent with with what research says that people's earliest memories or around three years old. What would be, well, first of all, because anybody care to share one of their earliest memories, maybe somebody that has memory earlier than three years old. I remember watching my mom leave for work at night. I'm out of my crib and then life has to stand up on the windowsill. Oh, wow. In your in your crib? Yes, I was like probably too. That's pretty crazy. And then I remember dialing 9111 time because I got in trouble for it. Wonderful that a two-year-old could know. Yeah. Anyway, Oops. I also remember a little memory from being in the cribbed. It was just my brothers playing computer games, but just remember that perspective in being in a crib. Yeah, that's crazy. Yeah. So one student last quarter, I think, said that they remember being like like five or six months or beings not walking in that they remember biting their mom. So why does maybe like a potential issue with studying this question? Different thicknesses have effect. Are we allowed to talk or do you just want it to go fight? Yeah. Just jump in whenever you want to. You're going to have a couple of different things. Just your general state of what you observed, how well it like imprinted on the hippocampus and a couple of other areas. Whether there was like an emotional tied to an emotion tied to whether there was pain tied to it, whether it was a memorable sensation. A lot of those we'll go into it and then whatever you've learned up until that point. Sure. Yeah. Well, we learned definitely influences are memory is somebody saying time runes memories. What about just like empirically asking that question? So I asked you guys right to self-report this rep done dismissal My my my raise. But I Blake I think just by looking at pictures my family showed me and them talking about it. I sometimes like, convinced myself that I remember. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. How do you sort of do tangle detach those sort of things? Like I I definitely have feelings of strong memories from when I'm very little, but they happen to coincide with pictures that I that my parents have great memories of the things that there's pictures on this bandgap. I'll put them in the garage next time. Okay. Let's move on here. Yeah, so this is, this is just a generally an issue in this class. And cognitive science in general is memory is kind of a difficult thing to study, right? Because it is such as subjective experience and it's often especially long-term episodic memories. It's hard to get confirmation, right. All right. So before I talk about sort of the earlier, the glass may just want to say that the main priority this quarter, and I'm hoping that you're getting this for a lot of your professors, at least in cognitive science. That we really care, that you take care of yourself, that you put value on your own mental and physical well-being. And this is true every quarter, not just in the middle of an antigenic. But, but I think it's more important to say right now, we should probably to say it more in general every quarter. So yeah, there's just some links that I've included on the syllabus are linked to the American Psychological Association. I'm just tips for students dealing with stress at this time. And I'm not that kind of doctor. But I know exercise helps that definitely helps me with mood and anxiety and things like that. There's live online rec classes offered at UCSD, go for a run, whatever. There's a link here. The UCSD counseling and psychological services. If you need sort of more direct support. I know that. And expanding their services since the pandemic. So, you know, and then in general, just we are really flexible. We're here to help you guys. So don't hesitate to come talk to us about an issue that you're having. I can't remember one student that I said no to for an extended deadline or for some issue that they were having last quarter. So if you're struggling, I even had a few students that were just like I'm struggling. I don't know why I need help. I need to take a step back from this class. Can I have a weeks extended deadline? You communicate with me. I'm happy to help you. I don't want you to feel overwhelmed by those clasts. Okay. So he just kind of a brief overview like where this cost fits into the cognitive science major. It'll get done. Can you guys make sure your knee you did? Coolies, sits here and back. So it's kind of interesting, is one-on-one serious learning or sensation and perception learning memory and attention and language. I think if these classes as sort of the core of cognitive science, right? And then it's kind of informed or informs all of these other areas. But it's got a little bit lost in this department only because there's these very specific specializations, neuro, machine learning, data science, et cetera. And so I just want to take a second to kind of remind you of what cognitive science is. It's just this inter disciplinary study of cognition. And I think of the 101 a series as kind of being synonymous with cognitive psychology. And this 101 a, b, and c series is really, I think of it as cognitive psychology, a three class series in cognitive psychology that is informed by, you know, or it has these foundational questions from philosophy. It deals with anthropology in that we're interested in how these forces shaped the cognitive capacities that we have. We're going to make connections to neuroscience. Things that are covered in the one of seven. Series, but it's not a neuroscience class. It's the cognitive component that sort of is informed by cognitive neuroscience, but is not itself cognitive neuroscience. It elucidates challenges that we face an AI machine learning. And so that's sort of where the series fits. So this is sort of a definition of cognitive psychology. The scientific study of the mind and mental function including learning memory, attention, perception, reasoning, language, conceptual development and decision-making. And so perception, one-on-one, a language 101 C. And then this class would be learning memory and attention as well as reasoning and decision-making processes. So just in case you didn't have a sort of contextualization of why you're taking a series of classes. And so these are the types of questions that we're going to talk about an answer in this class. So we won't go over sort of why the answer to these questions is what it is, cuz we'll spend the next ten weeks doing that. But for now, let's just kind of take a guess. Open-loop pole. All right. So 4420 through 79% of people saying balls. The answer actually is no vaults. Any ideas why cognitive load? Can you expand on that? Well, I think that you're just spending too many of your minds resource at one things aside from driving. And it's less about if your hands are free and more about your mind, your vision, all the senses, and all the other things that you might be considering. Perfect, yeah, absolutely. And we'll talk a lot more about that in this term cognitive load. In the next weeks, a lot of detail. How about this one? Click on it. You haven't. Alright? So 74% of people saying yes, 26, but there actually is no. And we will talk about the very specific research. That supports this or doesn't support that. We used to think this was true there called flashbulb memories. But we'll talk about some particular research studies that actually what it is is that we definitely feel like we have a very strong subjective sense. Memories are very strong. But when you actually find creative ways to test the accuracy of those memories over time, they're actually not any more accurate than the normal memories. People just feel very strongly that they're more accurate, embedded. And so we'll talk more about that in a lot more detail. So we're kind of running out of time here. So I'm gonna just jump through these questions and get on to telling you about the logistical stuff you need to know. So all this that's going to be posted on Canvas. So everything that you need for this class will be posted here. The other website that you want to have on your radar as Piazza, there's a link, it should be the correct length. Now in the sidebar, the navigation bar of canvas. And this is really going to be the fastest way to get responses to your questions. So there's 350 students in this class, and there's a 120 students in my other class. That is a lot of emails that I receive every day. And I don't really make it my And then I get emails all these other places too, right. So it's just kind of a jumble of emails. And so I like to have, this is like a separate place for the class where the TA's also are responsible for answering their questions and you can answer each other's questions. It just makes it a lot more efficient for you to actually get an answer to your question rather than have your email lost in my, you know, you're welcome to email me directly. It's just probably going to take a bit longer for me to respond to you. So private messages in Piazza are really better if it's a personal matter, but feel free economy, it just might take a little longer. And then back to that take care of yourself thing. So I just kinda want to set expectation for this quarter about sort of what I expect to you, what you should expect of me in the teaching team. So because I had a toddler, mainly, I used to work evenings and weekends all the time. I regret doing that. I wish that I had learned a little bit more work-life balance when I was younger. So I don't work in the evenings and on the weekends. I don't expect you to work on the evenings, on the weekends, and I don't expect my teaching team to work on the evenings, on the, in the evenings and on the weekends. And so in that spirit, if you post something on Piazza or send an email Friday, Saturday or Sunday, that's totally fine. You have a question on your mind. I get it. You want to send to respond to our post on Piazza. Other students can respond to your questions. But I'm not going to require that the TAs check Piazza over the weekend. I'm going to have the quiz due before class on Monday. And so any question you have, you'll have several hours Monday morning. You'll have a whole week before to get questions answered. So I don't have anything do like Sunday night that you're going to need an answer over the weekend. And I also encourage you to take some time away from thinking about this stuff over the weekend. Okay, so course material, so this is the book for the class. It's called cognition. This is the seventh edition. That's the version I'm kind of going off of. And this is the sixth edition. I haven't noticed any big differences between them, so the sixth edition is totally fine. It's also optional, right? So you know, I was the type of student that really liked to read the material myself. I just absorb things better that way. I think lectures were a little bit too fast paced for me. And so I like to really be able to sit with reading material. This is of course before anything was recorded. So but the book is optional. It's depends on your style. There's nothing on the quizzes that's going to be only from a book. You should be able to get all the information you need from lecture. But I do recommend the book if you're the type of person that likes having a book. So that is optional. The this other things apps is not optional. It's $25 and it's going to be a required portion of the class. It's 20% of your grade. It's I've looked for like free versions of it and they're just not very good. And so what this is, is it's just online versions of classic experiments where you participate in a version of the classic experiment and we get all the class data to look at. So it's really, I think it's really important to have sort of the hands-on sort of concrete component to these sorts of things. And so I really like this. I'm sorry, I have to pay money for it. And so yeah, the book the book is 80 bucks. Don't have to buy that. Zaps. You can buy separately for $25. This is the course code. So when you click on zaps, you purchase it, um, you'll have to enter this code to add yourself to the class. And if you do want to version of the textbook, you can get this sixth edition for in paperback for like $11 on Amazon. So I don't series and the, by the most recent version of the textbook. Any questions about that? The text is kept flying by. So if you want to maybe raise your hand and ask a or just jump in and ask a question. Do you have one? Because we can't keep up with the chat. Alright. So keep a press on. Interrupt me if you have any questions. Quick question alone would be the benefit of getting the zaps for cognition versus just bind that $13 hard copy paper back. Oh, so zaps isn't a book. It is. It's an interactive software. And so the zaps is online experiments that were going to be doing and talking about in class. And you're going to, it's worth 20% of your grade to do these. To do those experiments, those required. Required. Okay. And then the code will get us like a 100% off. Yeah, I wish. Yeah. If you really have like a financial difficulty that precludes you from being able to purchase this. Come talk to me and we can work something out. Okay. Thank you. Sure. Yeah. Sorry. I had a question. Sean. Why do we need a purchase that's by up to the first axis is going to be due Friday of next week. Okay, something. Thank you. Yeah, passion for the textbook. If we don't get it, is the information that is covered in lecture are going to be enough yet for exams and stuff. Yes. So you could theoretically get a 100% all the quizzes and on the final, if you just listen to the lecture, and I won't have anything that's on in the book. It'll just sort of help reinforce and give context to. Gotcha. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. So grading and assessment, so class participation is going to be 15% of your grade. I'll talk in more detail about all of these things. Actually, I'll just start right away talking about these things. So class participation and the intention, the way this works when, you know it's in-person class is I've clickers and it's responding to clicker questions to encourage what's called Peer Instruction, which is, which I'll talk about in a second. I know that this isn't really realistic to do this quarter and mainly the reason it's not realistic as one people or another time zones to, there's a general expectation that you don't need to be present for the classes. This has become a zoom culture thing here at UCSD. And so I know a lot of students are signing up for classes that maybe overlap at discussion sections, overlap, et cetera, et cetera. And so I want to, I don't want violate that expectation. And so what I want you to do, what the class, the intention is that it would be a synchronous class. Due to ten lecture, you'd answer the poll questions in class, you do the breakout room activities. And you'd be able to miss five days and still get full credit. That's how the class is designed in person, not realistic for everyone. So you could also, instead of that, you could choose to do it asynchronously. And the way this would work is that instead of answering those poll questions in class, you would watch the lecture separately, an answer poll questions from the lecture that are posted on Canvas as like a little quiz thing where you're just, it's, it's credit or no credit, but it's a Canvas Quizzes and you just answer the poll questions and maybe something short answer questions depending on the day. If you choose this option, you have to do all the participation. The reason that I have is five days free built into synchronous is because you're actually expected to be there at a certain time and things come up with asynchronous, you should be able to do at all. So that's kinda the trade-off. You have extra, you have 48 hours to do it. You don't have to come to class. You can't miss any synchronous You have to do during class time, but you can misfire. And then the third option is just opting out. You don't want to do any of the participation. You think you can read the book and do well on the quizzes in the lecture without participating at all. And you want to redistribute that 15% to your quizzes, and I don't have it on the slide, but your quizzes and final exam. So 10% to your quizzes and 5% to your final exam. To be honest about the opt out, I'd done as many quarters. It's a bimodal distribution. So you have students that opt out. You have students that are very strong students. They know that they can motivate themselves. They know they can learn from the book. They opt out and they do very well. But it's a bimodal distribution where there's another set of students that pops out that really does need the structure. And those are the worst-performing students. So you know yourself which category you're in. And just kind of keep that in mind when you're choosing what to do. This option is posted on Canvas. And so everybody needs to fill this out, choosing which of these three options you want. So synchronous, asynchronous or opt out. Once you make a selection just for logistics on the teaching team side of things, we need you to stick with that option. If some life circumstance happens, like you used to work, but you got fired from your job and now you want to attend class live, or you had to change time zones and you have some documented dramatic life event that changes your choice, will work with you on that. But barring that not happening, you're kind of locked in for the quarter. So yeah. Look where we are now able to append. Yeah, like absolutely, you can still attend. You're just going to be graded on something different so you can attend, but you're still going to need to fill out the asynchronous form to get her to get credit for it. I don't think the does the form come up like before class starts? All know that the TA, one of the TAs who's going to make it as class progresses and then we'll posted after class. And those are the same questions? Yes. It will be identical to lecture. Just filling out a separate form. After that. I have a question about the poll questions like, are they graded on completion or accuracy? Completion. Okay, thank you. Any other questions? Either click question here though, I have a flight on Wednesday during class time. Is there a way to make up that artist Beijing because I do want to do asynchronous. Well, it would just count towards one of the five you can miss. So that's why you have the five. Ok. I mention oh, I have a question. I've never used zaps and so I'm simultaneously trying to sign on so I can get it. But do I need to purchase zaps as like a subscription and then purchase the booklet on top of that for this class. You don't eat, you know, you don't need to purchase the book. You only needed a purchase that okay. If what I'm saying is when I try to I the only thing I should be buying is the booklet like the Zack's booklet, like I shouldn't there shouldn't be a subscription service or are there shouldn't be like An extra fee on top of that, right? Not on top of that $25 thing. Exam booklet though it's a it's access to usings apps and it's like a period of access. Okay. Has anybody. So I don't have the student's side of things as anybody use apps before in this class? Though? I believe I use it before. I just can't remember where. Got it. Ok. What I will do anything yet. I will post some more clear instructions on canvas about how to do it and what have I just to make sure that I just bought it. Okay. So it's it's like when you buy it lets you choose whether to buy the booklet ends apps are just zaps or just the booklet. You just choose zaps and you sign in with the student code. And then it shows you what assignments are there and then when their deadline is. And when you click onto it, it sort of reminds me of like Khan Academy where you like you read a paragraph and then you do it's exercise and that sounds right. Yeah. Thank you. So that that process is what you should be experiencing if you're not if you're getting something weird, come talk to us. Is do you have to make an account with the zaps or with with the WW Norton? Yeah. You had to make an account and then it asks you to university and then your school email. Yeah. That's where it throws up an error code. I've gotten off the website and you'd like a different browser too. Huh? Ok. I'll just check later. Yeah. We'll send me send me a screenshot of it and I can contact the ret to make sure to there's been student that have had weird issues in the past. So I'm sure that they can fix that is let me know if you still have trouble. Okay. Thank you. Sure. The question How many questions do you have to answer for the synchronous? Because my Wi-Fi sometime a little, sometimes a little spotty and I think I may have missed a questionnaire to today slogans like, yeah, that's totally, that's totally fine. When I look at it, I can usually tell if a student was there. It I have it set to, I think 50% of them. But if there's ever an issue, you can also just send me an email and I can add it up. The students set code on the slides on Canvas art is cut-off. Near me. Go back. This code. Yeah, because you have another image after that and it cuts at all. It's also on the syllabus. I'll okay. And it's right here now that it sorry about that. Ok. Let me just we only have a few more minutes. I want to tell you some more stuff. We'll skip the stuff about peer instruction. It's important to tell you that the research supports it. Being tested regularly is also important. The research supports it. And we'll talk about it. So there's not gonna be any midterms. The weekly quiz is going to be the main form of evaluation. Having these really stressful events, you know, three times during the quarter, two times during the quarter seems a little bit silly to me, especially online. And so there's going to be weekly quiz. It's gonna all be multiple-choice. It'll cover the previous week's material. So week two, quiz will cover material from so will cover material this week. And next week on Monday it was two will be posted and it will cover material from this week. And you'll have a way to do that quiz, including the weekend. I recommend trying to get it done before the weekend and it'll be due right before class the following Monday. So starting next week there'll be a quiz posted Monday after class. It will cover the previous Monday, Wednesday, Friday material. It'll be due the following Monday before class starts. They're gonna be timed. They're going to be open book, open note. But the intention is that you won't have enough time to look up every answer. So the intention is that you've studied and prepared for these quizzes. And if you forget one or two things, you can kind of look it up, consult your notes, make sure you're correct. But I want to avoid students just not paying attention to the material and just thinking that they can sort of look at the answers on Google. And it's going to be designed for you not to be able to, that you have to sort of thought about and generally at least be familiar with the structure of your notes to find the answers. You're not allowed to work with other people. You can think of them as quizzes terms sort of like mini quit, midterms. But you can use your notes. Lowest quiz is going to be dropped. And then just to avoid things come up, if you miss liquid, that quiz deadline, you do have a whole week to do it. For some reason, if you miss the quiz deadline for every subsequent data units, you're going to get 10% deducted. 10% of your grade is going to be this kind of new thing. I'm trying, I hope, have fun called cognition in the wild. And sort of like how you guys posted if you haven't posted it yet, there's a Padlet posted on Canvas where you can post a picture of yourself or a hobby you're interested in to sort of introduce yourself. A lot of people have already done it. That's a week one, you'll get credit for that. But in subsequent weeks, what you'll do is you'll post something. It doesn't have to be from that week's material, which is something that you notice that week that relates to class content. For example, you know, I noticed conditional discrimination, which is a term we'll learn later in the quarter that my but my dog banjo ways in the sun on the table when my husband, the conditions, the stimulus conditions, the discriminatory stimulus is present. But he doesn't lay on the table when my husband is. So just sort of like a real life example of something we've learned in class. It's going to be credit, no credit. But we reserve the right to give extra credit for really good ones. You can encourage extra credit for other people if you heart the ones. So one gets a lot of hearts by either the teaching team or students. We might get extra credit for it. Okay. Zack's, we already talked about these experiments there pretty fast, five minutes, some of them are up to 30 minutes. One to two will be due. Mostly one will do sometimes to will be due every Friday starting next week. And as long as they're above 80%, you'll get full credit. Final exam is basically going to be a long version at the quiz. So it'll be like the weekly quizzes just longer and cumulative. Also multiple choice, also timed, also designed to where you need to prepare for in order to be able to complete it in the time allotted. And you'll have a 24-hour window to provide flexibility. So it'll open at eight AM, March 15th, and it'll close at AM March 16th. So you can it's time within that window. We made it through all the stuff I wanted to say with two minutes left. Oh, wait, no, not not by sections. New sections this week sections are not mandatory sections will you will review material, the TAs will lead the sections. I think it's really great for you to go to these. A really good opportunity to talk more in depth about the material, get more clarification, but they're not required. We won't have section this week. We will have office hours starting Wednesday, so that's a good time. I usually don't have officers the first week but because of zaps and so some of these other little things, I want to have officers Wednesday and Friday just to help you guys get set up with that stuff if you need it. Okay. That's all that I wanted to say today. So I will hang out for any questions, comments, concerns. I had a question about the quizzes. Thank you. Yeah. I just wanted to know what was like the ratio like like how long is typically each quiz like 30 minutes. And not like those that I don't have them written yet. I've never done this before, usually have min terms. And I just decided to scrap that idea because it feels unnecessary. Agreed. So the intention is going to be that there we have about 30 minutes to do them, but could probably complete them in ten. Okay. That makes Thank you. I have two quick questions about the sections. O so I don't think and like the course registration, there's like L discussion session separates couscous instruction, right? So horribly Is it? Yeah, there should be. So for the section where we're nasa or were we don't have to go there and we is, it's just like a review of the material. So these are this section times, Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Discussion section times. We can attend any of them. You can attend any of them. The TAs are going to be reviewing material, but there's no grade component associated with them. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Hello. I just had a it's Yana. Hello. I had I had forgotten. Oh, I just had a quick question because I just tried to switch into the class today to switch with another class that I'm not ready for yet. And is there a second kind of like number of people that will be allowed on the list laying on the, from the weightless like you're usually doing. There's like if 10% drops out. And then, but now some people are saying that if it's a multiple choice class than they just kinda automatically get an E. Yeah. So it's, it's it's up to me to a point. I think it during the normal year, it has to do with room size right? Right now. So the limiting factors, it's the number of TAs. So this was to be a ratio of TAs to students. And so I'll have to look at the waitlist. I, so the short answer is, I'm willing to let ten to 20 students in. I think that the teaching team can handle that. More than that would probably be unrealistic for us to grade. So I'll talk to TA1 today and sort of see what the situation is often what happens is that it seems like it's a short weightless, but that's just because there had been previous wait lists that happening in the class, you know, so even if there's only a short number seats on the waitlist, it's hard to know how many students who've already let in. And sometimes Tom does let students in if it's below a threshold anyway. So it's something I kind of need to talk to the administration about, say Mm-hm. Okay. Yeah, cuz I'm trying to figure out if I should drop that other class. Don't do it yet. Yeah. Yet. Wait till tomorrow. Which life? I figured at the back-end of things. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you so much. Yeah. You're welcome. Professor, I had a question about the final I don't know if you've made a decision about this yet, but I was wondering if, if you're planning to make the final like a traditional three our final because of three finals the same day. So I was just wondering, I had never really done that. So I think it will be similar to what I did in one of them, an a which is that it was a two hour window, but the exam was designed to be done in like 45 minutes. Alright. Alright. Thank you so much. Sure. Hello. I was wondering how intended to scout for the synchronous format. How the penances is recorded is through the poll questions. So every cluster can be poll questions. And if you answer some proportion of them, you'll get full credit. Awesome. Thank you. Oh, hi professor. Yeah. So I was wondering for the asynchronous versus synchronous, is the asynchronous calculated on accuracy while the synchronous one is just answer the polling questions. They're both just for credit. Okay? So the way we do it is if it's a short answer, the TAs will like scan the short answers them to make sure that, you know, your people aren't writing garbage. But if it's any sensible answer related the cloth material Antar attempting to anther question, then you'll get full credit. Okay. And I was also wondering if for the They're a weekly due date for the cognition in the wild. Oh, good question. There should be. I didn't set one. But there will be it'll be weekly. It'll probably be Friday's along with the zaps just to keep things easy to remember. Okay? All right. Thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. Another question. I'm not sure if somebody asked us already, but lectures will be recorded and posted on candidates, right? Okay. Thank you so much. Sure. Yeah. Nobody asked that or said that. Can question. You have a question. I last quarter we started off like mostly synchronous and there was the option for asynchronous as well. But I know last quarter we kind of don't point to switch to asynchronous Yeah. Something like that happening out. I hated it was, you know, behind after that transition. Just like covering my bases, I fell behind. I heated it is awful. I hated it and never doing it again. Actually as someone who has had to be a synchronous. I didn't like it either because I liked watching the live lectures. Yeah, yeah. That's what I kinda figured was like I fell under taking too much time with break out rooms stuff. And so I'm going to kind of try to limit that. A little data were something I did a little bit, but yeah, I agree. It was like once I announced that I can then take it back because I think a lot of students did like it or at least thought they would get, but, yeah, kinda depressed. But what am I doing with my life? But why? Why do they do this? Other question? Professor, I have a question. I actually have two questions. So my first question is, do you know when COGS 1A 1B course will be up on the sonar systems? It should be. I didn't put in the request until yesterday. Take a couple I usually take some a couple days. Okay. And then my second question is, when are we going to get the links for the Padlet? Oh, the link is on Canvas already. And then the other, I guess what we will do is I will post, we will post it when we post the quiz. I think that makes sense for the quiz. And the paddle will be hosted Mondays after class. And do the following Tuesday in the habit will be do I guess we could just make them but does that make sense? Or yeah, my family. I'm wonderful. Week. Hi Professor. So just to confirm, we have a week each for both the quizzes and the Padlet. Yep. Okay, cool. Thank you for your discussions. Are we allowed to choose which one you want to go? Do I really know what we were interested in going to anyone you want a quick question? Sure. Do we have anything due this Friday? Thing? Do the strategy, the cognition in the wild introduction. We'll do next monday. Okay, got it. You can do it now. Okay. Thank you. Chair. Rad. Any last questions or any meeting? I guess I could have done that awhile ago. Oh, I have one more question. Shirt for the cognition in the wild. Do you want us to post anonymously or like with an account? Holy cow. I didn't know you could do it anonymously. I think I think I made it so it asks you for your name. Okay. Gosh. I'll make sure that I do that because we're going to get credit for it. Okay. Thank you. I'm going to end the meeting. I'm teaching team for those of you who are here just expecting email for me about tomorrow. We'll meet at some point tomorrow to talk about details. Okay. See isolated.