 Right? We'll give it one more minute for people to do. Watching the participation. Or the participants come in is sort of like microwaving popcorn. Rage is sort of like it's popping really quickly and like in small succession. And that sort of slows down right at the point right now where the popcorn starting to get Bert. Okay, let's get started. One thing I wanted to say is that I love all the Padlet posts. I've been looking over the last couple of days and there all this really terrific. I love the ones of videos and images. You're really just applying these ideas really creatively. It's really fun to see. So keep up the good work that I'll ask you beforehand. But I was thinking that this might be a fun way, a fun thing to add to quiz questions as like, removes some of the key terms from somebody's post. That is a really good example. So look out for emails for me if I find a particularly good example in the Padlet, and I asked you if I can include it in the quiz. One day, I wanted to say, I think, I think there's lots of, but I wanted to make it very clear. The asynchronous quizzes, the yerba league for palate is on the Canvas page. It should be under cognition in the wild as the module. Asynchronous quizzes. So what I had hoped to do is only assign the people in the asynchronous group to the asynchronous quizzes so that people not in that group don't see those quizzes and don't think about it and don't have to be annoyed by like seeing a 0. And I know that's bothersome. There's really no way for us to do it without Sean having to take like literally an hour and a half out of his day to like, set this up every week because you we'd actually have to enter each person manually. There's like we've been over it exhaustively. There's no easy way to do it in Canvas, which is really annoying. So sorry. But you're going to see the async does is even if you're not in that group, just ignore them. I don't use Canvas as automatic grade calculations. I just use Canvas as a recordkeeping place and then I download the spreadsheet and calculate the grades because I have all these weird different things going on. Asynchronous participation, synchronous participation opting out. So just so you're aware of that. So if you're in the async synchronous group with the octet rule, just ignore this quizzes. Any questions about that or anything else? Yeah, one is asynchronous to asynchronous, and three is opt out. K. Any other logistical questions? Another thing to remember is Monday the quizzes do. So the zaps and the Padlet are due tonight at midnight, and the quizzes due Monday before class. It's a holiday, but I think you've had all weekend. It's really quiz, so we'll just keep that as the due date. Okay, so last time we left off talking about classical conditioning, we made this distinction between classical conditioning and operant conditioning. So we'll finish up talking about classical conditioning today and maybe if we have time, we'll move on to operant conditioning. So difference between classical conditioning and operant conditioning is that classical conditioning involves a sort of involuntary reflexive behavior, something like salivation is this perfect example, where it's not the animal had to do anything to be rewarded by food. And the reason that it continued to salivate was because it was getting this food reward. It was just an automatic response that was. Once elicited by the food stimulus automatically and now is elicited by this Belle, this condition stimulus. But it's an automatic response. In contrast to operant conditioning, which is a behaviour that the animal does when it is rewarded and reinforced for doing that activity. The, something happens after it does that behavior, and that increases the probability that it will, it will do that behavior in the future, like say, an animal presses the lever, it gets a food reward. The food reward increases the probability that it will continue to do lot repressing. That isn't operant conditioning situation. They're both considered forms of associative learning. To a walk-through sort of classical Pavlovian conditioning scenario where we have this unconditioned stimulus, unconditioned response. And then with enough training, a new condition stimulus will now illicit this, what we now call the conditioned response with enough parallels. And so what one thing that I want to sort of make clear about this and this is we are starting to get into not just this stupid associative learning. That for a long time, we thought for a long time. Animal and human behavior is characterized in the behavioralist terms as sort of like these just very associative, dumb kind of processes that if this happens and this happens together, then we learn to associate them in some way. This experiment that I'm going to talk about is clarifies that it's not just pairing two things together that it's going to make them associated. But the information value, the information that the conditioned stimulus and the conditioned stimulus must be informative for learning to take place. It needs to give you, give the organism some new information. Other wise, that pairing isn't going to be one. And so the point of this study is really to show that it's a more sort of intelligent process than just simple combined associated associations. So this is a very classic study done in 1969. And what they did was they first, in experiment one, there is a tongue that occurs. The tone is immediately followed by a shock. And the shock elicits this fear response. And fear is operationalized as reduced lever pressing. So the animal's getting, pressing a lever to get food. It's already trained to do that. It knows how, that's how gets food. But when the shock happens, it's, it reduces its lever pressing. The tone eventually just elicits that fear response in and of itself with enough training. Okay? So now in the second experiment, they do the same thing. Only now it's a tone and a light so that the tone plays, a light comes on, the shock happens. There's a fear response. There's this reduced level, a low level press, a lever pressing. And then what they do is they play just the tone by itself. And the tone by itself elicits this fear responses. Reduction in lever pressing. And the light by itself also elicits this fear response, this reduction and lever pressing. And so this is the key sort of experiment here that is going to give us information about, are going to shed light on information value. So in this, now, it's the separate third group of rats. They train the rat first on tone shock and then elicit the shock, elicits this fear response. Sorry. After enough training with tone shock fear response, they then do a second round of conditioning or an attempt at conditioning, where they play the tone and the light together. And then the shock comes eliciting the sphere response. And then they do this test. They play the tone and the tone by itself, just like an experiment one OS, it's this fear response, this reduction and lever pressing. What do you think happens when the light alone is played in the situation? Sorry, it was I don't even bother. No fear response. Do you want to speculate about why and how? Sure, yeah. And so the logic, at least the way that BY these experiment are so bullying this result or why they predicted this result is that they took this as evidence. So you're right, everyone in the chat, there's just no fear response, which no response to just the light. And the idea here is that the light didn't provide any new information. So the tone predicted shock, that association was learned. But now you add this light. It is not giving any new predictive value, right? Compared to the tone by itself. And so when the light alone was played, it didn't produce this fear response. And this was a really important experiment because it really showed that it's not just pairing two things. That makes an animal have this condition response. It's that the, the thing that comes first has to in some way be predictive of the thing that's coming, right? Um, so it's not just this simple association, it's a little bit more complex and intelligent and that information value matters. And so the term for this is called blocking. So blocking is this failure to learn an association between a stimulus and an outcome. And because another stimulus was already predicting that outcome, it didn't add any new information. Our rate. And then in some cases, and this is unusual, but in some cases, due to biological preparedness. Biological preparedness can outweigh blocking. And so one example of this is that pigeons are really roughly visual, actually have really good vision. This is showing a pigeon detecting tumors, breast tumors, so cancerous tumors. So what they did is they, they train one set of pigeons to on, on images of tumors that are known to be malignant. And they, they train them unless they get rewarded for pecking when it is malignant tumor versus when it's not. Then they give them a new set of new ones that haven't already been categorized. And individual pigeon actually is 84% correct. And they can use what's called flip flop behavior. And if you take a group of pigeons and knew this, they're like 99% accurate. So anyway, pigeons have really good discrimination envision. And so because they use vision to find food in the natural environment. Oh, if you train a pigeon that a tone predicts food, and then you add a visual stimulus to predict food. It actually will learn that that visual stimulus predicts the food just because it's like biologically wired to associate those things to those two things. But this is sort of a rare example. Most of the time you get blocking. Excuse me, sir. I don't mean to interrupt my audio cut out for the last one is the summary essentially that pigeons are biologically tuned to visual stimulus. And they're more like they're, they're less likely to block visual stimulus. They're more likely to use visual stimulus then audio or feeling or anything else. Yeah, exactly. So if you did the same experiment here with a tone and a visual stimulus for pigeons, they wouldn't, they would have a fear response. So they've had some sort of behavior? Yeah. They respond to the light. Okay. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So it wouldn't be blocked. But that's unusual. With us from latent inhibition. Latent inhibition is this idea that a stimulus that's familiar is going to take longer to become a conditioned stimulus. And that's because they have all these associations with it. So for example, if the dog was in an environment where bells were going off all the time. And then a bell predicted food, it would take the animal, eventually the animal would learn this connection. But because the bell was already something in its environment. It, latent inhibition inhibits that learning. And so it would just take longer for that animal to learn that association. An example from my life is that I used to work at a coffee shop, like in the coffee shop when I was in college, I would go to the coffee shop and work on homework assignments. And the timer is going off constantly. I just kinda learn to block them out. And then eventually I got a job at this coffee shop. And it was really terrible at changing the coffee because I just never learned, are to me a really long time to learn that the timer going off meant I should change the coffee because I was just so i was latently inhibited that that sound to tune that sand out. It didn't mean anything. So took me longer to learn that association. And then another thing in conditioning is that temporal arrangements matter. So we're going to talk about four different ways that you can sort of set up a conditioning paradigm or training. And so there's delayed conditioning. And so if you look at the little diagram on the right, it's showing what they're calling the conditioned stimulus. So that would be something like the bell and the food dog example. And then the unconditioned stimulus would be something like food. And delayed conditioning is when there's the, the CS proceeds the unconditioned stimulus, for example, the food with some overlap. So it comes first, it starts first, but it does overlap with the presentations would be like the bell going off and then the food arriving, but the food is still the bell Still on for a little while or the food or ice? I'm I have ns here in parentheses because I don't like that. They're calling it a conditioned stimulus because we'll see as we go through these that not all of these become stimuli. So you can think of this as the ns. Also. The ns is just a neutral stimulus, the bell before it becomes conditioned. There's trace conditioning. And this is when the neutral stimulus or condition stimulus comes first and there's no overlap. So the bell, the bell happens. There's a gap and then the food appears. There's simultaneous conditioning. And so this is when the bell and the food or the, when the food arrives the bell place, they happen at the same time, complete overlap. And then there's backwards conditioning. And so in backwards conditioning, you have the food arrive, the unconditioned stimulus, and the conditioned stimulus, or neutral stimulus, the bell goes off after the fit is right. Okay, so let's do a little poll question here. So given what you know so far about conditioning and information value, which temporal arrangement do you think would be the least, would work the least well? And think about why. Professor, I just want to state that I don't see the pole for cellular to the pope. No. Okay. Did you just come in or no? No. I think there will be another questions. Just make sure you get that one and if if for some reason that one doesn't show up, just send me no. Okay. It happens to people once and a while and I've done a lot. Okay, so 95% of people have clicked unclick and if you can. Yeah, perfect. So most people saying D And in fact, yes, that is the one that works the least well off and it actually doesn't work at all. So why would that be? Any thoughts on that? In terms of information value? Let it be because the neutral stimulus wouldn't have any beneficial effect on it. So it just disregard it. Once again, what do you mean by beneficial? Like it doesn't it doesn't learn anything of value from it. Perfect. Yeah, it doesn't have any predictive value, right? Yeah. It's not, it's not giving it any information, right? The food is already there, right? The food, the thing that the analog here is that it's hard, it has already arrived. And so anything that happens after that, I took with what's already here, that's the food is predictive of nasa food. Yeah. For the with that mean, like would it lead to like the food becoming a conditioned stimulus for the NLS to arrive. It could, it could write depending on what? If you could behaviorally measure it, right. Like if you got food and then food like was proceed like came after shock or something or shock came after the food then yeah, it would. But then we'd be calling these things different terms, right? Than the food would be conditioning that, you know, predicting the shock. And so you could learn that association. But now we'd call the food the conditioned stimulus. Any thoughts on which, which you think works the best? Doesn't it depend on what's happening? In one case, a food aversion. I don't know this research, but some students brought it up, some stuff you guys learned and COGS one, there can be taught like time delay with certain animals with, with like nausea and crap, like rats that could depend on like that. A trace conditioning sort of thing might work better. But for the most part, no, for the most part, this delayed conditioning is going to work the best. Where it's going to have it come. The conditioned stimulus with the neutral stimulus happens first, but there's some overlap. And the idea here being is that it does have predictive power. But you're forming a strong association because there's some, at some point they're happening simultaneously. Then trace conditioning, it can work depends on the stimulus, depends on how far the gap is. By animals aren't even confused if it's simultaneous because it's still not prediction. Yeah, it doesn't, it doesn't work exactly. Didn't work very well. It's sort of like the food. It's sort of like the backwards conditioning is that the food's already there and so that's predictive enough of the food. It can, it can work, but it just doesn't work as well as well. And then backwards conditioning hardly ever works except for coming back to this theme of this biological preparedness, which in some cases, for example, with monkeys, monkeys are biologically prepared to really dislike and fear snakes. And so in situations like this, can have the snake happen first and then a bell happen and the snake will, or the animal will learn to fear the Bell, even though it's not predicting, even though it's happening after just because there's such a strong, just like with the pigeon example, there's such a strong biological preparedness to associate those things. Okay? And so we have to talk about in this class about the sad story of little Albert. When before I was a mother, before I had child, I just sort of thought of this as like a classic psychology experiment, but now it's like really sort of hard, harder for me to talk about Little Albert. So poor little Albert was a research subject of Watson and Rainer. Rainer was Watson's graduate student and then wife. And they did a lot of questionable things. And one of the things that they did was essentially torture poor little Albert. And what they're interested in one, this question of what fears are inborn and what fears do we have later in life that become conditioned based by bootstrapping off of these earlier fears that are inborn. And how do, how does that conditioning then generalize? And so what they did was they first brought Little Albert into the lab and they just tested a bunch of different stimuli. To answer this first question, what fears are inborn? So they did things like light, a newspaper on fire, present him with a beanie, with a dog. And they tested all these different stimuli. He wasn't really afraid of much. The thing he was very afraid of what made him cry was banging, was loud noises. They Bang De Gong and he would cry when the gone went off into the use this. So they're like, okay, not a lot of fears are inborn. Loud noises are, seem to be an inborn fear, or at least acquired very early in life. Can we use this then to condition other fears? And so what they did was they would put the bunny on Little Albert and then they would bang the gone. And so the bunny started to predict the thing he was afraid of. And you learn to fear the rabbit because it predicted this gong sound. And then they were interested in, I shall show you the clip of the video. So they train them on the rabbits and the gang. But then they presented with him with all of these other things that were very like dogs. Watson wearing this for phase a fur coats and found that he could condition. We'll jump. One that you could condition. You could do fear conditioning in humans, which we didn't know before this experiment. And into that, that fear conditioning could generalize. And so a generalization means is they trained the rabbit predicting the gong sound. But would other furry objects also elicit a fear response and to some other furry object would elicit the sphere responds. I don't know exactly where the line was with little Albert and what he wasn't, wasn't, didn't end up being afraid of in this experiment. But generalization did happen to some degree. And generalization is little Albert is like, he is not alive. But the last, I saw this in the chat, sorry, I got distracted. 87 was what they said in the Wikipedia page because they didn't know the identity of Little Albert. And then they thought that it was one identity. And then some other researchers think It's, so it's basically we debate between two kids, one child that died at age six of hydrocephalus, and then another trial that lived to be 87. And when he died at 87, he his family said he didn't like animals very much. So maybe it but they actually don't know. I think at this point, they're not a 100% sure about Little Albert who he was. Anyway. So generalization is when you generalize this fear to similar objects and then discrimination would be the opposite. And so the rabbit elicits a fear response. Fourier Dog lift your response. That's generalization that a fur coat maybe doesn't elicit a fear response. And so that's discrimination, Albert, It's discriminating between the rabbit and the fur coat. Any questions about this? Yes. Could you go over one more time like in a summary of what are like the inborn fears. So he didn't like your fire. So this than critical to designate, obviously they couldn't test everything like this. This within their research framework. Loud noises, most the NBA inborn fear. The other things they tested actually, he didn't have much of a response to some things like even my fire, a newspaper on fire. He he didn't have a fear response to him. And so really what they were they were trying to do is they are trying to, there could be other things. But they are really trying to find one that had a strong fear response. So that didn't, they can use that to see if fear fear can be conditioned. Illinois screaming children, right? That'll induced the fear response. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Interestingly, if it's the mother's voice, it's even worse to which I recently learned. Not from my own experience, but I read that. Ok, so extinction, unfortunately they couldn't extinguish Albert. Spiritual extinction does means removing the association and training the association, if you will. They didn't do that to Little Albert because his mother, they this is part of the reason why they don't know his identity as she moved away, they she took them and potentially they think that the reason she moved away is because she found out what was going on in these experiments and she worked in a hospital. And so felt pressure to have him participate in these experiments. And so took them away. Anyway. So extinction is this idea that you can eliminate an association. So you have the dog that's trained to have a salivation response from the bell. Eventually you get to a point where the Bell does not elicit salivation and so that would be extinction. And so the way that you do this is you just repeatedly exposed the dog to the bell without the food proceeding that stimulus. And after enough trials, it will, the conditioned response will be eliminated or extinguished or undergo extinction. And what happens interestingly is the spontaneous recovery. So in this graph you have the first session, right? So this dog has been trained to salivate when it hears about it, repeatedly, play the bell without food coming at it, salivation, behavior decreases to nothing. But then you bring the dog into the lab the next day and you play the bell and it salivates again. And this is what's called spontaneous recovery. And it's kind of an intelligent thing to do if you think about it, because you've learned over many trials that the bell predicts food. And then one day the bell doesn't predict food. It's sort of an intelligent thing to us to say, well, maybe there's just some even Lab has had a food that day. Maybe there was something special about that one session. I should still continue to hold this association. And then you do it again for a second day and the conditioned response disappears. You bring the dog and the third day it's soulmates again, but it's now lower and you just do this repeatedly until finally one session, the behavior is completely extinguished. Any questions about that? Do you have to have the G7 to withhold punishment or reward after the stimulus? Or can it, can it just be like, oh, long length of time where something as unrelated to food like it still gets fed, but it never hears the bell again. Would it after like a year, would hear the bell and start salivating? Yes, it would. And so, so you can, and this is kind of how you have like different contexts learning, right? Like you can, you can sort of learn that one thing applies to one situation. And then you're in a different situation. There's no longer this contingency, but then you can go back to that earlier contingency. I think it would weekend Independence. With these experiments, there's like all sorts of variables you can manipulate. And so it's like sometimes, yes, sometimes no. But in general, yeah. You could BY repeatedly fed without a bell and then go back to that same association and in a different context or different time period. Thank you. Yeah, sure. Okay. So stop sharing these results. So this is sort of a fun, I think it's interesting. I don't wanna say application of classical conditioning, but it's a fun thing that happens. It's not fun. Drunk drug arrest isn't fine, but it's, it's sort of an interesting theory, I think. So. The idea is that classical conditioning can be related to drug overdose. So the idea here is that this is going to take some unpacking. So sometimes a condition stimulus is going to elicit an identical behavior. So food elicit salivation. And then the bell predicts food. And so eventually the bell, the conditioned stimulus, produces salivation to the unconditioned stimulus and the conditioned stimulus, the behavioral responses, the same salivation. In other situations. The, the behavior that is elicited by the conditions stimulus is not going to be identical to the unconditioned stimulus. So for example, when a rat is shocked, it jumps. But if you train a rat that a tone predicts shock. When the tone plays, the rat isn't gonna jump, it's not going to do the behavior associated with the actual unconditioned stimulus. It's going to freeze. And so these are different behaviors. It's that are elicited by the unconditioned stimulus and the conditioned stimulus. Preparatory response theory is this idea that it's not about producing the same response, it's about preparing the body. So in the condition of in the situation with the bell predicting food, you salivate so that you can eat the food, right? You can break down the proteins or whatever. And so salivating makes sense to prepare the body to eat food. Whereas a rat, for example, maybe thus the sound predicting shock, maybe shock is like evolution, narrowly like a snake cutting or something like that. And so you don't want to jump, you wanna freeze, you want to not be have visible motion, right. So it makes more sense as a preparatory response for a rat to freeze if it thinks a shock is coming, as opposed to doing the thing that actually would happen when a shock comes to. The overarching idea is that it's not to produce the same behavior, it's just to prepare the body for whatever is coming. So that's preparatory response theory. Now, a different idea is this idea of a compensatory response. And so a compensatory response is an automatic response that's in a direction opposite to that of unexpected stimulus. And so a good example of this is we're doing a drug. So heroine here, especially kind of heroin spelled with an e, because I don't know how to spell heroin. Apparently. Hair, for example, lowers your blood pressure. It's not a blood pressure medication, but as a consequence, it lowers your blood pressure. And so when you have these cues related to heroin, so say you do heroin in your basement. Your basement seems like an appropriate place to do heroin based on the television shows that I've watched. And so the basement provides all of these cues to that you're about to do heroin. And then, yeah, so that's neutral stimulus. These heroin related cues, places you usually do heroin, things that cue your body into thinking you're going to inherit. And then you do heroin. And heroin decreases your blood pressure. And because your blood pressure is dropped, you, your body wants to return to homeostasis and so it mounts pens in response to bring your blood pressure back up to homeostasis. So that is before you've been doing heroin for a long time. This is sort of early on before training. But then once you've been doing heroin in your basement for long enough, now, you go into your basement and the heroin related cues by themself is going to cause this compensatory response. Your body do heroin. And so it wants to increase your blood pressure. In preparation for the heroin you're about to do that's going to reduce your blood pressure. So it sort of putting the cart before the horse a little bit and having this compensatory response to return you to homeostasis because it knows what's coming. Any questions about that aren't through. So effectively the same thing in a sense because the compensatory response as essentially a preparatory respond. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's it's a sub, but let's say it's a sub header of a preparatory response. Thanks for the okay. Okay. Yeah. Stuff like I'm not determinate. Yeah. Yeah. So preparatory response there is just this idea that your body does something to prepare. Compensatory response is specifically having the opposite response in order to okay. Yeah, that makes Yeah. Thanks for the clarification. Yep. And so this could be one reason for drug tolerance. Obviously, there's, you know, you, you, when you do drugs, you increase the synapses that are that respond to that drug. And so you need to do more. And there's other reasons. Two. But one potential reason for drug tolerance is this, that you're having this compensatory response. So you say you usually do I don't know how what units heroin is measured and 80 grams, but let's say you usually do two units of heroin in the beginning, but then your body starts to mount these compensatory responses. And so in order to counteract those compensatory response, as you need to do more and more. And interestingly, this, so the same amount of the drug that would produce a mild effect in a familiar environment. Because of all of these Q's that is triggering this compensatory response can then produce an overdose in a novel environment. And so oftentimes, overdose as happened in places like hotel rooms with celebrity. So Janis Joplin, Whitney Houston, which Hebert, Jimi Hendrix, analytical Smith, John Baloo, she, Corey Monte. If all of these people who died of a drug overdose, we're in a novel environment when they dropped out of the drug abuse. And there might be other reasons for that too. But one idea is, is that this compet, compensatory response id in the pleased they usually do the drug. Their body mounts all these compensatory responses. They think they can do ten units of heroin. They've trained essentially up to that point. But now they're in this novel environment, their body doesn't. Now these compensatory responses were now ten units of heroin is way too much and it leads to an overdose. So, yeah, so this is sort of one, I think, kind of interesting application of classical conditioning. Ok, so let's try this question does, to see if this all made sense to you. Just to ignore choice E, This is just a generic hole that I have. Sometimes I'll have an option. Hello, professor. Yeah. Stone. I don't know. Okay. Yeah. Just go ahead and shoot me an email and I'll add it manually. Why? Pollster? And for everyone else shown up for me. Let me know again. If for some reason the pull not showing up for you, send me an email. Somebody say make sure zoom is updated. Are using Zoom on web. Yeah, so check out that maybe people have some useful tips in the chat. Alright, so auditable saying a fair amount of people saying b. So every morning Alice and drinks the cup of coffee on her patio at home. One morning she runs out of coffee. So she stopped at a coffee shop that she'd never been to. What according to preparatory response theory, would you predict would happen? And so does somebody want to take a stab at choosing a pitiful were between a and B here. Between a and b and y. Like the reason why it's not B is, I think people like Saab preparatory response and they thought, what is preparatory response like entail like Allison would need more coffee, but it's the context of her going to a new environment means that her preparatory response isn't active. So the normal amount that she's used to, which is been building is way over it. She doesn't need that much coffee when she goes to the shop. Perfect. Yeah, exactly. It's sort of like the analogy. I like going to the hotel room. The person can't do as much hair when in the hotel room because it doesn't have all these compensatory responses based on the basement cuz that it use bit is person used to have so they use be able to do tenants of heroin. Allison usually could drink ten units of coffee in her apartment because you are herpetic. She goes out onto her patio and her body mounts compensatory response. And so she can drink a lot of coffee to offset that compensatory response. But now she's in a coffee shop enough environment, she doesn't have those cues. And now she needs a less coffee. And so that's where the idea, and I wanted to show this question I have actually is an a1 value it I ate inside with like B and C. These are sort of kind of more questions and so kinda look out for these on the quiz. This is sort of how I try to make the quiz questions sort of less Googleable, are less able to look at your, just look at your notes and scam a slide because all of these would be, it would be hard to distinguish between a, B, and C by just kind of scanning your slides and not thinking a little bit more deeply about the theory. And so that's kind of why I wanted to talk about this particular question that on every cuz there's gonna be a couple like this to sort of distinguish between just being able to read your slides and actually understand that material. So just to clarify, S1 then a is the correct. Okay, because we learned, we learned the, you know, the, the new scenario equals you need less of it to get the same effect under the heading of compensatory response, but compensatory responses a sub theory of preparatory response. So that asked about compensatory response. I'm sorry, I'm probably not pronouncing it correctly at all. But that would be C because we're talking about the exact opposite effect. And otherwise, the effective, the less coffee is still goes with prepper toward the detonation compensatory response. If you were to scanning your slides now immediately then they would go. Yeah. Great question. So we would go with it. Yes. Yoga, pregnancy, mercury. Gotcha. There won't be any questions that's difficult on. This is actually the reason that I do this in class notes The question I removed from the exam because I got that sort of split response on the exams, which is, you know, you don't want a question to get less than 50% accurate and keep it on the exam. Ok, hey, so I think we'll just end here rather than moving into implicit or into operant condition tuning. I accidently talk for ten extra minutes in my class earlier today. So I feel like I want to make up for that in to those students that are in both classes. But stick around, ask questions if you have any. And otherwise I'll see you on Wednesday. Quiz for okay. But large k. Let me, yeah, let me fix that. And it's not just theaters are three Student. So thanks to it. And then I say needs credit. Other questions. Could you re-evaluate why? Be the coffee example? Sure. Is more preparatory and then the Arnold's come like the drug over D Suzanne pool is more cuz they're both preparatory response there. Oh, yeah. So the way I think Luke's clarification helped is that you can think of compensatory response as a sub-header of preparatory response. It's a specific type of preparatory response. Okay. Yeah. I'm realizing that this is a really difficult question. So don't worry about that. If these if this scenario makes sense to you and how compensatory response relates to a preparatory response than your gun? Hand like Eco over the back to heroin example. Her yeah. Can you explain now, Anthony, again, just briefly say that. Yeah. Yeah, no problem. So you are just starting to do heroin and you Das You have no conditioned associations but doing heroin. You decided in your basement. And so the first time you do heroin, There's no compensatory response. There's no preparatory response because you don't have any cues. So you then you do the heroine and consequence apparent is that it decreases your blood pressure. I'm using this just as, as, as an example, a simple example. There's obviously much other things that heroin, many of the things that heroin does, but just as a case, as a toy example, heroin decreases your blood pressure, okay? Your body wants to maintain homeostasis. And so it's going to have this compensatory response. It's going to increase your blood pressure. Ok. That's what hours a day. And so once you I have done here when in this basement for a many times, in a basement itself is a cue that you're gonna do heroin. And thus a queue for your body to mount this compensatory response increase your blood pressure. Well, even without doing the actual heroin, just sitting in that room, your body starts to prepare for that the drug. Okay. Yeah. And so you think you can do ten minutes of heroin in this case because your body is like usually you're prepared for it. Unconsciously, right? In ways that, that is just like a automatic response that you can't cognitively know about. Heroin. Sorry. So you take in less heroin because you already have like like that sense already, right? You don't know, right? That you're in the novel environment in the hotel room, you don't know that your body is, it mounts a mounting this normal compensatory response. You think you can do ten units of heroin. But in actuality you're Adi, isn't prepared for that. So when you do ten units of heroin, now, it decrease your blood pressure, has such a dramatic degree that kills you because you didn't have that compensatory response preparing to bring you back up to homeostasis. Ok. That makes so much more sense. Okay, good. Yeah, it's kind of it's kind of a little tricky. There's lot of pieces, a lot of moving pieces. Yeah, I was a little confused, but I think I get it now, so good. Thank you. Anyway, any other questions? I have question kind of related to this. So say you're someone who likes to go out to maybe a bar, like a new bar, lot, like matter often, but a different bar. Or you're going to keep getting that compensatory response, but it's not going to like stop over time. I I don't know the answer. I know that. I don't know the answer to that specific nuanced question. I know that it definitely work with alcohol. I've definitely experienced this with alcohol were like, I usually drink my glass of wine, like sitting on a patio with my husband and I. And I don't feel that much. It's just sort of like a it's like my normal like wind-down glass of wine. But if I go to a wine bar and have a glass of wine, I feel it. And it's, it's interesting. It wasn't until I actually learned about this compensatory response theory that was like, Oh, that makes total sense that in this novel environment. But your question is, if you're constantly in different environments, then is it effectively o bar become sort of a stable queue? Is that you're asking What can the fact that it's a novel br become like the basement where it's, you've adapted to a novel bar, you walk in and probably what it is. If you walk into a bar, there's smells associated with it, there sounds associated with it. And so you still would probably have that compensatory response to like the cues that are held constant across these environments? I would guess. Okay. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. I don't know the answer, but that that's just a gaseon. Red wine. Donovan, read 10. Like I went to film YY Riesling or other yeah. But any other questions? So I just got for for quizzes is actually is, is due Sunday, right? Not Friday. Monday actually. So it's due due before class on Monday. I mean, there's no class on Monday, but that's the time that it's due. Every week. Okay. So for Friday's is on the pedal and zips, right? Yeah. Yeah. And I wanted to do that just because some people need to use the weak entity more like pallet adaptor is pretty easy to do during the week. But if you have a really busy schedule, the quiz is a little bit more. Go. Yes, sir. Rights? At the time, what I wrote it down, I'm going to look at I'm going to go do some administrative things right now. I'm quitting that. Good luck with it. Hi professor. Hello. I just have a quick question for informing information value for the good of my leads to low fear response. Keyed clarifying. Yeah, so this one here. So the idea here is that in experiment three is the key experiment. So the tone is played, a shock happens, and then the animal has this fear response. Reduced lever pressing. You do that over and over again. And eventually the animal learns that the tone predicts shock. You. Then play the tone and the light together. You can basically continue training, but now the token is playing, the light comes on when the tone plays, the shock happens. There's this fear response. And then what they do is they test which of these became a conditioned stimulus. So they play the tone and it elicits a fear response. And then they play the light and it doesn't elicit or a fierce bots. And the idea is that the tone, the animal learned tone predicts shock. They've learned this association tone. Tone predicts shock. That's what is predicting the shock is coming. Now when they play the tone plus light equal shock, the late isn't providing new information value. The tone already is predictive of the shock. And so they can essentially ignore this other stimulus because it's not providing any new information. And so that's what blocking is. It's when you learned one stimulus association, you add a new condition stimulus. And that association isn't learned because it's, it's not independently predictive of anything. So that makes sense. Yeah. And for experiment 123 are down on the same animal or different ones? Different animals. Good question. I should I should put that in the slide. I was just thinking about this, like trying to think of a real-world example of blogging. Yeah, I think that will help. Yeah. Let me get back to you on that. I'm having trouble thinking of a real variable. Okay. Yeah, I'll have one for you on Wednesday. Okay. Thank you. Sir. Give banks have a good weekend.