 Okay. It's two o'clock. We'll give it one more minute for people to roll in. Okay. So a few announcements. One announcement is the latest development in my Series of Unfortunate Events is that banjo is missing. He's been missing since Sunday. It's a total longshot. I figure there's 200 people in this class. Some of you might look by SDS. You might as well throw his picture up there. If you happen to see a little scruffy dog running down the street. And this has happened a couple times before, so I'm still hopeful that he'll turn up. He's very friendly. Other thing is, there's a kind of an issue at the quiz last, the most recent quiz, which is that there was a few questions that were from, not the previous week, but from last week. And so rather than have you guys have two quizzes due this week, what we'll do is that quiz four is just going to be due on Friday. We're not going to post a new quiz this week. And it'll also give us a chance to just reset. The quizzes are supposed to be posted on Monday. It kind of drifted away from that. So that's what's happening now, quiz for due on Friday. And then it covers material up through last Monday. And then we'll start with them posting the quiz on Monday again next Monday. Any questions about that or any logistical questions? Would anything from weak or be posted or sorry, would anything but from this week be posted on week four Quiz? No. No. So the quiz was intended to cover material. So it's the beginning of week six. The quiz was intended to cover material from week four. It covers material from week four plus Monday a week five. That was the error, which is why we extended the deadline. Okay. And if you already to the quizzing, you email me, I haven't gotten to those those emails yet, but will the teaching team will deal with it in a way that's fair to you. Okay. Thank you very for the crew. Harper. Yeah. So the quiz from last week is the last quiz you'll have. It usually was due Sunday, I extended it so Friday, it's usually able to take that anytime if you have midterms and stuff on Friday, you can take it waited for that because it was actually the quiz that was supposed to be due on Sunday, right? And then no new quizzes week. Sure. Okay. So we left off talking about what is attention for. We were talking about how, you know, not only is it for selecting relevant information being this spotlight of attention, it also turns out that it enhances certain perceptual features and it helps perceptual processing of information. So some of the stuff that we left off talking about just to kinda get you back in the mindset of where we were last time. We talked about some early studies of attention showing that pre queuing irrelevant location is going to enhance attention for that location. I think a pretty intuitive finding that if you show a valid view, meaning an arrow that actually is pointing towards where the target is gonna appear. People are faster to respond to the target compared to an invalid Q arrow pointing in the opposite direction. A more interesting extension of this finding is what's called the same object advantage. And so if you have people do this task where they have to respond to one of these four locations indicated by a, B, C, and D, were there labeled a, B, C, and D just for us to discuss the the diagram. They weren't labeled a, B, C, and D in the study. If you're queued at location a, are faster to respond to that location, which is the same finding as this early study. But the interesting extension is that if you're queued at a, you also are faster to respond to be location B. But you're not as fast to respond to location C. And the interesting thing here is that a and C location a and c are equal distance from each other as a and B. But it seems like there's something about be the location of B being part of that same object. That Captures your attention more. And so this is called the same object advantage that if your attention is drawn to any part of an object, other parts of that object are going to be, your attention is going to be captured by that, more by the whole object, not just a spatial distance. Great question, Nathan. I actually didn't. I have not looked at the original study in a long time. I would be very surprised if they didn't do that as another condition, but I'll have to look back and see if they actually did the horizontal condition. I'm sure that would be a caveat mentioned here if it wasn't the case. So I'm going to say with 95% certainty, yes, they did horizontal. But I'm not a 100% sure. Great question. Cuz yeah, it could be something about our right versus left visual field or something like that. It's a great thought. And then we talked about this study where you stare at the center of the screen and your attention is queued. And then you have to say where a gap in a circle appeared. We did this one last time, so I'll just show you the stimuli one more time. So your attention is captured. That was an invalid Q. And then the stimulus appeared in the bottom right corner. And then you're supposed to say where that gap was it when it's a valid cue, people can report smaller and smaller gap sizes accurately. When it's an invalid Q and their attention isn't there, it needs to be a really large gap for them or a comparatively large gap for them to accurately say where the gap was. And so the inference that is made from this study. So this is gap, gap size on the x-axis and correct response on the y-axis. Increasing, decreasing gap size when it's a valid Q. So this suggests that this difference actually is actually the biggest here when the gap size is really, really small. And so the inference from studies like this is that there's actually some sort of perceptual enhancement that happens from attention being directed to a certain location in space. It's, I talked about this metaphor of a zoom lens, a spotlight versus a zoom lens. So the spotlight idea is that you're attending to something to the exclusion of others. A zoom lenses is not only are you attending to one location, to the exclusion of other locations, but that, there's something about that attention that has actually enhancing perceptual processing to that spatial location. Can actually have a gap size. Well, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, sorry, I went through that quickly cuz we did at the end of class last time. The gap size is if you look directly at the bottom-right corner where the thing is going to appear. That's, this is the stimuli. So look at the bottom-right corner. See, there's like a little gap in a circle. Did you see that? The spacing between each of the lines? Again. So here's the actual slide. So it's a circle with a little gap and n. O. I didn't catch that all. Yeah. Thanks for asking. This is actually this is okay. Are you able to see the resumes you're not letting me share? Okay? What actually one of the things that I love about Zoom is teaching on Zoom is I feel like and maybe it's just the thing you need to this cloth that you guys stopped me and asked questions for clarification. And that doesn't happen as much when it's like an in-person class. I think maybe it's just like there's a whole auditorium full of people or something. And so people feel like they don't want to stop the class, but it's so good for, because if you didn't catch it, most likely half the class didn't catch it. And so it's really useful, I think, to have that sort of dynamic. So thanks for asking. Ok, So another interesting study in this vein of enhancing perceptual processing when there's attention, is this finding that there's a sense of increased contrast perception. So contrast perception is this is just an example from low to hire. These are called Gabor patches. Gabor patches are essentially just like gratings that vary from black to white. And you can modulate how much at the contrast between the black and the white is to a point where they're both almost gray. And this is used in a lot of vision Studies. And attention studies also, visual attention studies. And if you're attending to a location, you perceive a higher a stimulus to have a higher contrast than it does relative to a location that you're not attending to. So what they did was they had people look at a center of the screen like this. This is what's called an endogenous and exogenous attention. Exogenous attention. So stare at the center, something's gonna flash. And so that little dot that flashed is a stimulus meant to capture your attention exogenously. And this is contrasted with end. And the attention which is like an arrow. It's something that captures your attention automatically. And so you have a very quick flash of this item, it grabs your attention. You can't help but attend to that location. And then what they do is, so the left area of the screen was where the exogenous Q happened, where your attention was drawn to. And then they ask Which stimulus has a higher contrast. And then people say right or left. In this case, the 12. It actually does have a higher contrast, but this is sort of meant to represent what, even when these two contrasts are actually identical, people perceive the one on the left to be a little bit higher in contrast than the one on the right are not necessarily on the, the one that was exogenously cute in this case, the one on the left. So to get people to pick the the queued and uncurved item. The same amount of the time. The uncurved item has to have significantly more contrast than the QED one. Any questions about this so far? So there's this sort of sense of increased contrast. Just when we have exogenous attention to a location, even when the contrasts are identical. And, and to get somebody to pick. So in this case, you know, to get somebody to pick the stimulus on the right, because the left was cued to get somebody to pick the stimulus on the right, you'd have to actually turn up the contrast considerably higher than the Q location to get people to actually identify that that contrast is higher. And so this is more evidence that it's sort of actually increasing the perceptual experience of processing, stimulate a particular attended to location. And so this is just an interesting extension of this sort of research that I think is a kind of a fun study. So what do these faces do you think is more attractive? Most people will say the one on the right. It has a higher contrast. It's the exact same base, but the contrast has been increased. And this is the principle behind wearing eyeliner and things like that, is that faces that have a higher contrast or attractive, more attractive. She had the same face. You increase the contrast and one of the faces compared to the other, the one with the higher contrast is judged to be reliably more attractive than the same face with less contrast. Okay? So think about this based on the findings that I told you about from that previous study with the Gabor patches, what would you expect to happen if I briefly presented two identical faces? So just to actually identical faces, the same contrast. But the one on the right was exogenously QED. Okay, great atmosphere will saying ie, 70% of people said, anybody care to sort of say why they chose E and explain the kind of logic, go leap you're making. So go for it, Haley. Or just as a based off of the what we had just kinda talked about. If the contrast is higher, we generally see it as more prominent or in this case, more attractive in terms of faces. So I mean, I thought it was pretty much just explaining what was hurting. Pretty much explained from the last slide. Yeah, great. So the, the face on the right should be perceived as higher contrast. And we know that face is to have a higher contrast, are perceived as being more attractive. So we should both perceive them to have a higher contrast, which the prediction is when you went to, when attention is exogenously QED, we automatically perceive that location in space time or have a higher contrast. So if it's a face that we perceive to have higher contrast, we should also perceive it as more attractive. That's the sort of the, the logic there. Okay. So this was the question, Will an attentional cue make if they seem to have a higher contrast and hence more attractive. And so what they do is they present a blank screen. There's an exogenous queue, it disappeared. And then you have the two identical faces and then a mask. And then you have to say, which face did you find more attractive? And of course, as Haley pointed out, as you guys chose ie, the prediction came, was validated. So the cute item, even when it's the identical face, identical contrast is judged to be more attractive 70% of the time compared to the one that's enqueued. And so this is just sort of further validation that even with these complex stimuli and he's kind of more complicated effects of like facial attractiveness. Just having this exogenous attention can really literally increase the perception of the contrast. Because the kind of addition that this study is giving is it's not just that you're attending to that location. And therefore you're able to detect the higher contrast. It's that these sort of secondary effects contrast like attractiveness that are happening it, there's really low, low level. It can actually. It increase that sort of low level representation of contrast, leading to the same effects as if you've actually manipulated the contrast. So I thought this was kind of a neat study. This was done by viola astronomer in the psychology department actually here at UCSD few years back. If you're interested in this kind of visual attention stuff or lab would be one to look into. So yeah, so as I said before, these are all sort of examples of that extension of the spotlight metaphor. There, there's a heightened perceptual processing for things that were spatially attending to. Oh, she did move to Dartmouth. Ok. Sorry. I heard rumors that she had and then I actually checked today and her website with a recent publications was still up and I was going to I guess she didn't decide to move after all. Sorry. Susan Dartmouth. Okay. Maybe grad school. If you're very interested in the, in the stuff. Okay, so the selective attention, enhancing representation. And then next we're going to talk about this sort of third component. We sort of broke a ten just to remind you, we kinda broke attention up into these different like what is attention for bullet points. So we talked about how attention is not just this sort of like one monolithic thing. It's kind of a hard thing to define even though we kind of know it when we see it. And so instead we're kind of breaking it up until it. What does attention for? What are some of the phenomena that it does, but how does it help us navigate the world? So selecting relevant information, enhancing it, and then just generally perceiving a coherent world. And so we'll talk about a few examples of how attention is required to just put the world around us together into a coherent stream. So one sort of problem that the brain faces or that we've struggled to understand in the brain or, or processing is what's called the binding problem or feature binding. And the idea is what binding is, is it's this process of putting different features together. So you have all of these different parts of the brain that are going to spark parts of the occipital lobe, parts of the visual system that are going to process things like shape and color and motion and depth and location. And some of these are processed in the ventral stream. Some of them are processed in the dorsal stream, represented at different places in the brain. But when we look at this rolling red ball, we see its location in space, its color, its shape, its form. We see it in depth. All of this is fixed to the same spatial location and all of those features, features are integrated together and we perceive it as one object. Even though in the brain all of these different features are processed in sort of different parts, right? Great question, Robert. The blue and dress, the blue and gold dress. If you remind me, I can send you some information on that. It's actually not the binding problem. The, the blue and gold dress has to do with a phenomenon called color constancy and, and stuff we talked about, about unconscious inference actually. And so this idea that when you are looking at the dress, to wear the same color, hitting your eye, the same weight, light hitting your eyes. But you're going to make different inferences about where that light is coming from, whether it's lit from behind or in front. If the lighting is incandescent bulbs or if it's sunlight. And so you're making these different inferences about the world and then proceeding that bottom-up stimuli. So the dress example is actually a great example of that unconscious inference thing where you have the bottom information, the light waves, and then the top-down information, where's the light coming from, what type of light of it? And basically it's just, it's an edge case where people are making different assumptions. But if you're interested, I can send you some more info on that. It's a, it's a great question. So I think as more and more with color constancy and unconscious inference than feature binding. But great question. So that's the problem. How do we put all this information together? And one of the findings is that in order to do this, to put all these features together, we need to, we need attention. Attention plays a critical role in feature integration. And so some evidence for this is this idea of illusory conjunctions. So, alright, so I'll show you sort of the study and then I'll explain how this demonstrates that feature binding requires attention. So what you're gonna do is report back the letters on the left, or sorry, the numbers on the left and the right side of the screen. It's going to happen pretty quickly. So 123. All right, so what were the letters? Thing was 4351, great. And so what this, what would happen in this study is then people would be asked which letters did you see? And people often report. So here's the actual stimuli on the left. And people will report that they're asked was the a the green a was the blue z was a green j? And I have to say yes or no. And often people will report a bluesy, a green J, a purple, or pink l for example. And these are illusory conjunctions. So what illusory conjunction means is it's the correct color. In that color was present. And it's a correct shape or letter, meaning the letter was present, but not in the correct combination. So blue was present, but the CSI wasn't blew. A z was present, but it was red. So what they find is this tendency to report accurately the features, but not in the right combinations. So the features seem to be in there and stored, but they just haven't gone through the second step of being attached. So that spatial location, the letter shape and the color haven't been attached because the your attention was focused on remembering the black numbers. And so this information got in but not not bind it. And so if you don't have an extra step of attending to these letters, you're not going to get this effect of these illusory conjunctions. Or another way of what was people trying to find the people we're trying to look at the letters on the sides. Yeah. Oh, sorry. Yes. So you're supposed to reports in the study, you I think maybe I said letters instead of numbers. The stimuli flash and you're supposed to report the 5351. So that's the thing that your attention is. A ten letters. The letters have no no point into study. Yeah. The letters are are are incidental that the yeah. I mean, after many trials that obviously people will learn that this is what they're supposed to be doing, but they have to, you know, get those letters correct. In order for that trialed account, right? Right. Any other questions about this? Just the methods. And so this is this prediction and demonstration that feature binding requires attention. Another example of how feature binding requires attention is for visual search tasks. So we talked a lot last time, I think, about these terms, parallel search and a serial search. So a serial search is when you're looking at like one object after another in a scene. Basically look at, so we'll look at the actual example. This would be a parallel search that you do. The read just pops out at you. It seems like your analyzing everything in the scene simultaneously, in parallel and deciding that that's the red vertical for that's the red stimulating pops out. A serial search would be that you actually have to allocate spatial attention to each item in serial until you find the one that meets the criteria that you're looking for. And so in this case, this would be something that requires a serial search. Moving your spotlight of attention from item to item or, or location in a region of the scene to other regions of the scene, trying to find a red vertical bar. And the idea here is that the reason that we have to do this type of search in serial rather than in parallel. The reason that the red vertical bar that's on the right in the middle doesn't just pop out at us, is. In order to bind features we need attention. And there's two features that we're looking for here. It's this vertical and it's green. And so we have to, you know, serially process all of these things, allocating attention to each location to bind those features. And this is an even more extreme example. We're now looking for a red vertical on top of a horizontal green one. And so in order to sort of put that bread and vertical information together, we have to have attention on that location. So those are some examples of why attention demonstrations that attention is required for feature binding. And entries men called this feature integration theory. And the idea is that there's this sort of two-stage model of object perception. So you have this pre-attentive stage. That would be when the stimulus flashes and you're, you're processing on some level, the colored letters. But your attention is focused on reporting the 4351. And that even without attention, those individual features, the shapes of the letters, the colors, the locations are being processed. The information isn't being put together. You need focused attention to combine those features. And so when you disrupt the focused attention stage by asking about the 4351, you disrupt that feature combination stage. And in other examples is you need that focused attention to cereal when you're doing a serial search. And the reason you need a serial searches because you need to actually attend each location to bind the features and then ask yourself the question of, you know, Yeah. Nathan. Yeah. Could you explain again? Why is it like his palace or just search for the red bar, the image on the left. What, what parallel search is? Is it? It's not. So they're both, they're both search tasks. What we mean by parallel search is that really the definition of parallel searches. As you add more items, your search time doesn't slow down. And so in this situation, I can add 40 more green items and your search time wouldn't slow down. In this case, if I added 40 more red and 40 more grain, your search takt time would slow down suggesting that you're analyzing each item individually and that's what's increasing your search time. And then the idea is that because you have read and horizontal but you have to, you have to decide if it's red and you have to decide if it's horizontal. And spatial attention is required to bind those two pieces of information. So when you do a parallel search are just kinda see when you're, when you're processing the whole scene in parallel, you're just seeing red and green, vertical and horizontal. And you need that focused attention on each item to decide Do these two features happen in this location? And access again? Yeah. Okey-dokey. Any other questions about the stuff? Water So just briefly, what wears attention in the brain? Attention is this really coordinated activity of multiple brain regions. But some key players are the parietal and frontal lobe. Very critical for attentional processes and damage to these areas can cause big deficits and attentional processing. And so we'll look at some of those, those deficits. And before we do, I want to just remind you of this term contralateral, contralateral representation. So it just means that for the most part, the hemispheres of the brain APA, represent the opposite side of the body. So in the somatosensory system, in your body position and space, visually, auditory space, there's this contralateral representation. And so in the visual field, for example, if the right visual field is this green bar, then that's going to be processed in the left us alone. So that's what I mean by contralateral representation. And so what attentional disorder, It's called unilateral neglect and its damage to the parietal lobe, one hemisphere of the parietal lobe. And so if you're right, parietal lobe is damaged, you're going to have issues attending to the left visual field and vice versa. So if this person, if you look at the plate, they have damage to the left parietal lobe. They've unilateral neglect on the right side of their visual, or sorry, the other way around. They ate the fruit on the right, so they are not attending to the left visual field. So they have damage on the right parietal lobe. And so this is what happens to these people is they just have no awareness of that side of their visual, the opposite side of their visual field, openness at the brain damage. And so in the lab, if you ask them to this top stimuli in the middle, if you ask them to draw a red line through every bar, they'll just draw lines to the ones on one side and neglect the other side. If you ask them to draw a clock, they have a knowledge of what a clock is, they have a memory of what a clock is, but they'll often cram all of the numbers into one side of the clock or draw half a cat or a house or whatever. And it's not a vision disorder. So it's it's easier. It's not easy to damage your parietal, but it's a lot easier to damage your parietal lobe because it's on the outside of your brain compared to like the optic nerve. And so there are disorders where it's very rare because your optic nerve at dislocation is hard to damage because it's like when you right in the middle of your brain. But you could have disorders where you have damaged your optic nerve, that where you actually are not processing information on one side of your visual field. But people are just aware of this. It's like having half of their visual field just obscured. And so they know that they have this disorder and they'll turn their other I Are there other to put the information there other visual fields or they can process the whole scene. So it's very, they're very aware of this blinds thought it's a vision thing. Whereas with you don't that lateral neglect, it's not a vision thing. It's an attentional thing. So oftentimes they don't even know that they have this until other people notice that they're only eating half the food on their plate or whatever. Here's a little video of a dog that had a seizure and they think he has a unilateral neglect? Yeah. Great question, TIM. Yeah. So if if you were to rotate the food than if you were to like turn the plate around the eye, then they'd be able to see the food on the other side. But interestingly, if they're attending to, their attending to the right. Well, I'll show you a study that actually gets like that question. Did you ever question? Yeah. So what if they're looking at the ball and they have attentional blindness to the left side of the ball, damage to the right side of the parietal lobe. What if you like not sanitary, but if you pick up one, I like the pen a pastas that was unlike the picture and slowly drag it to the side, to the side where they don't have attentional blindness. Is it like Great question, coin like, like magic medically to complain? No, no. This is, this is actually this exact study that we're going to talk about now is totally answers your question. So it, it seems to be once their attention is captured, the attention can, and this is sort of why we know it's not a vision disorder. Is, is your attention will follow the object. So if in this study they have, I would love to like plant the student questions that are like perfectly suddenly up to explain the next study was great. So patients see the target and red. They have neglect on the left side, so they don't see the blue. They're not attending to the blue side that they attend to the red side. So a letter appears in the red side natural report that letter and they can do that. But if you capture their attention, their attending to the right side, the red, and then the items rotates, but they keep their attention fixated on that object. They can now continue to report accurately the items in red. And so it seems to be something about the attention capture part of the process. And so sorry, if they see the purple and the N2. I would venture to guess that once their attention shifts back to the purple, then they lose the red. So it has to be like a sustained attention thing. So yes, if they like shift their attention, they attend to the blue than they would not be able to return to the red. So it's like always present. You can't like you can't like have them stand in a room and like. Rearrange objects on the left and right side very slowly and very simply. And then they'd be able to see the whole room. It's like you can rearrange the objects like aware. But as soon as their attention kind of like resets, it goes back or in this the my guesses and I I don't I don't know, like an actual study that speaks to that. But my guess is that once if you can manage to have sustained, it's like we'll only work with one object, right? Because you need that sustained attention and one's attention breaks from that object. They can't go back to that processing that side. Yeah. So once, once attention is broken and the effect goes away. Great question. Okay, so even worse than balance and are even worse than unilateral neglect is the next sort of attentional disorder we'll talk about. So what's going on in the scene? Not a trick question. Somebody without valence syndrome. So people often does. Oh yeah, I'm seeing in the chat kids, you're going to have a concussion. Kid going wild, the sinks overflowing. What's the kid doing? Reaching for cookies, Yes. So this is called I think the cookie thief so that the child is standing on a stool stealing cookies or the mom isn't watching, the mom is distracted and waters are flowing to you. Most people sort of have a coherent narrative that describes globally what's happening the whole scene. And people with attentional disorders, balance syndrome, they have a difficult time perceiving objects simultaneously. So if you show them a house, they'll say a window or a door, you know, describe different features the house, but they won't actually say house, the actual global object. And they have difficulties Heim sort of holding objects in mind simultaneously and thus evaluating the relationship between the objects. They can't move their eyes towards certain target objects or reach for certain target objects. I'll show you a little video of that. And so Bailyn syndrome, I didn't say this. This is when you have damage, so it's worse than unilateral neglect. It's when you have actual damage to both parietal lobes. So it's more of a global attention disorder. And they basically, the overall way, if you had to summarize balanced syndromes like they can't attend to more than one object at a time and have difficulty placing the object in visual space. So here's a guy with balance syndrome. However, with that said, I can see what I can tell you rigid, you seem to do better with your latte and I'll take a crack at it up here. If I hold it up closer. Touch that with that egg and you meet with the other hand, grab it with your right hand. Right hand. Five wiggle. What movement it help me at all. Well, that does a little bit. So motion sort of Auditorium. So a representation of the object, but it's sort of not bound and space. To just difficulty like I was with one object. If there was a second object, he wouldn't be able to focus on both of them. So these are just some examples of feature binding, unilateral neglect and balance syndrome. Some of the examples of how attention is really required for us to put together this coherent world. We have this sense of the seamless reality with all of these objects and spatial locations and attention is critical for actually putting all that information together. Okay, so let's try this question. So, so far we've emphasized how, you know, how he does, but that we focus on one thing at a time. But also sometimes we want to purposefully distribute our attention to do a few different things that one. So what's your intuition? Is this possible to distribute your attention among different tasks? Yes. So to answer the question in the chat, the unilateral neglect and valence and, um, that we're talking about is parietal lobe damage, unilateral neglect. One parietal lobe. Usually actually it's most often the case that it's parietal lobe and then valence enormous both pilots. And then a different differently than an attentional disorder is you would have vision impairment. I talked about that it's different than unilateral neglect or balance syndrome. Damage to the occipital or the optic nerve, for example. Ok. All right, great. Most people saying See that's actually, that's actually correct. So talk about this more. We'll talk about this actually. Sometimes it depends in a lot of detail. So will, for the next class or tail we're going to talk about when we can and cannot distribute attention. What kinds of tests can we distribute attention across? A good question. I think there is actually evidence. I feel like there's, I read a paper that there's actually research on men and women multitasking. And I think there are a small significant effects that women can do certain multi tasking more. I don't know if it's that they can actually do it better or if they just attempt to do it more. It's a good question, but it is a thing. It's definitely a stereotype. I don't know the validity of it, but I think there is some evidence for that. Okay. So let's do this question really quick in the last couple minutes of class. So can you think of a time that you felt you were able to successfully divide attention? And do you think two things at once? Can you think of a time that you failed at this? Based on those experiences, do you have a hypothesis about when you will and will not be able to successfully multitask. Do quick little breakout room near the brass to breakout room. Yes. They should have just opened the day. Raising it. Yeah. Okay. The breakout rooms are still clothing. There's still a few people in them. A couple more seconds. Ok. So it is 250 or so. We'll talk about this question starting off on Wednesday. But in the next two days, notice that you can and cannot multitask. Cpu can come up. What's my policies about when this works well and when it fails? And I will see you as someone say, whoa, whoa. New code. Paul. Yea. Yeah. I just was about your husband, your message. Sorry. I signed the beginning class and then it was time to start. Yeah. I can I'm always wait here for any logistical questions and then we can turn off the recording and talk. Any more questions? Yes. Question. Sure. Go ahead. Or that one's thanks. It wasn't kind of logistical. You just said that you had like possibly extra information about the whole dressing. Oh, yea, yeah. We'll call it deduce it. By the way. I originally, I can now switch back and forth. I originally, I think I saw it white and gold and I can't go Member. Yeah, there's some interesting stuff. I talk about my sensation and perception class about like night owls versus like people who wake up early in the morning. And some studies that have found differences in perception of those two groups of people. Because one group assumes incandescent light because they're used to, using artificial light. They're people who wake up early or more used a natural light. So they're small effects of like, you know, go light you're assuming and like the late you're exposed to. Every person's like visual, like basically how every person perceptually differently. That's why. So it's not about the actual, this is the, this is, I think the interesting thing is that it's not about the light perception it's about. So first, you need to understand color constancy in and of itself, which is like a different thing, which is like we spend day is talking about and 10 and a. But the general idea is you want to be able to, it's adaptive to recognize the color of an object, not the light hitting your eyes. And so there's the reflectant, there's the object itself, and then there's the light source. And the light that hits your eye is going to be an interaction between the reflective properties of the object and the light source. And so the light hitting your eyes when you're looking at a Raspberry, for example, the light that hits your eyes if you're in dim light versus incandescent light versus broad daylight, the actual lightwaves, the hay or I are going to be very different across those three situations. But you're always going to perceive it as the color of a raspberry. And so the question is, how do we do that? How we have color constancy, even though the light hitting our eyes is totally different in all these situations. And the idea is that we're doing some automatic inference. We're basically subtracting out, you know, if there's a lot of blue in the light than we were when blue hits our eyes. We automatically subtract out that blue. Automatically thinking, Oh the blues coming from the light. I'm going to subtract, subtract it out of the object and we do this automatically. And so the idea is most cases, most of the time, people make the same assumptions about the light source, the same assumptions about the direction of the light. And so they interpret what lightwaves the same way. But this in the dress situation. It's ambiguous about whether light is coming from the foreground or the background. It's ambiguous whether it's indoors like an incandescent light situation or if it's outdoors naturally, does you're going to have different, you know, broad band spectrum enter the light hitting the object's going to be different. And so even though the light hitting the object for everybody is the same in our light wave processing, assuming you have normal color vision is roughly the same. It's the, it's the top-down assumptions of the brain is making that change the color perceptions so dramatically. And I your names robber, such borough? Yes. Okay. I will I want to find something good to send you because there's some kind of miss information, things that are kinda confusing. But I'll send you an article on it. It's just really down to like the whole top-down processing. Yeah, it's really top-down processing, which is at Timmy color constancy is one of the interesting phenomenon in psychology. Just this idea that like the same data can be interpreted so differently based on these automatic assumptions that you make about the environment. And I'll show you some interesting illusions with color constant C2 because they're very interesting. Cool. Thank you both for sure. No problem. Other questions alleviated yet a question. Why does one need to see this white band Gem really quick, say get tickets, so oh, yeah, sure. Who do you live in this area? I do, yeah. Yeah. I also posted on Uber. I know I I'm hopeful we'll turn epidemics a couple times in the last nine years. So it's never been this long though. I had a friend Music Kat, before the last big storm and it was six days but it came back to came back, ten back. Oh, I won't lose hope yet. Better runaway. Andrew ran away. Are you from San Diego? I am, yeah. Deejaying ring. Now, when I lost my dog, I found them on ringed. I don't use ring by pretty much connects. What rink is like the ring doorbell? Yeah. Yeah. I hadn't really yeah. So you could login and that's where I found that somebody will sit on him. Like I was looking on Facebook, I was looking in all sorts of stuff. Hanging would probably be your best bet. Okay. Yeah. I've never thought about that. I will totally check that. Yeah, they have like an app and it's kinda like a community, like people, like post, yeah. Well, in my neighborhood have written to you so great. I will definitely look into that. Thank you. Any other questions? You said you were sending me the information, so look through my email or on message. Yeah, I haven't I need to find that. I have I just made a note to myself and my email. I need to find I have some links in my old class because I, a, I, I sort of embedded some of the information though some of the articles I found online. I just want to go back and check to ones that had some kind of good information. But yeah, I'll send it to you sometime today as soon as I go back and look at the class links are cool. Thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. I wasn't planning on well, something about that, but that was kind of it isn't just about clerk ASI. Did he send me is who is this talking? Sorry. Use it to Jim. Okay. For some reason it's not showing me. Tj. Yeah. Okay. There we go. Usually like it highlights and pop up the person, but for some reason in Screenshare mode, it doesn't do that. So I am like always kind of at a loss for who's talking. Got it. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Okay. Donovan and I'm going to turn off the or we can just go into a different room. Actually, I have a quick question. Yeah. Go for it. Yes. I'll just wondering what's the process for switching from synchronous to asynchronous because recently I just got a job in a irrationally like casual. No, thank you. My schedule, it's going to be conflicted with the class. Again, a problem. Well, so there wasn't really a process. But the, basically the idea is like if you have a good reason, we can switch it. So just send me an email that's up already sent to set me in a couple Yeah. Yeah. Thank you for letting me know. Reopen them right now. Permanent do is just change it on Canvas right now. And then just to be extra careful, send me an email. Finally as week, just to remind me of this. On finals week. Just to make sure your table remember to calculate my grade. Okay? And if we, and therefore asynchronous, but we do show up the glass at times and do the poles. We don't have to do the quizzes after, right? You still have to do the quizzes. You don't have to do the poles in class, but just the way that it works is that it's too hard for us to like go back and kinda do detective work about which what you happen to do on any particular day. So just fill out just to be safe thought the asynchronous calls this for now on. Okay. No problem. And congratulations. Alright, thank you. Couldn't be a new professor. I think you're still muted. Thank you. Did you have a question? Yeah. I just wanted to ask though the extra credit magic treatment video, there are a couple of PSIs or when the best way to say it to you, just send it via email and just put magic trick as the subject line. Okay, cool. Alright. Thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. Okay. Let me turn off the recording. Cloud recording.