 War. You will get one more minute to let people trickle in. Afternoon. Yes. That's everyone's there going. Okay. How about you? Just another Wednesday for me? Yeah. I think geospatial. Alright, we got a 170 people here. Ok. So a few things we're gonna keep talking today about learning classical conditioning. We're not getting through material as quickly as I do in my in-person classes. And I think that's fine. I think that this format, or maybe just the personalities in this class have made us just sort of a lot more questions, a lot more interaction which I like. And so if we don't end up getting through all the material I intended to at the beginning of this quarter, that's totally fine. There's, this is a topic with an infinite amount of content practically. So there's not any set amount that we have to get through. A few announcements, as I said, last on Monday. And in the announcement it's kind of a rough week for my family. Thanks for bearing with me. Thanks for being patient with my sort of delay in getting to your emails and things like that, I finally did get participation. Choices posted on Canvas will talk about that in a second. But it took me a little longer than I hoped. So the update is on what's going on with me is that a lot of the kids in my son's preschool are now testing positive. A few parents have, most of the teachers have. And so I'm hoping that my husband and son and I avoided it. But I'm hoping that the worst is just that I have to deal with a two-year-old at home for a couple weeks. If for some reason we end up getting, then I'll let you know and I might have to cancel class. I'm not planning on it at this point, but it will just sort of be like today, sort of updates. So far we're feeling fine. So yeah, I appreciate your understanding. So as far as asynchronous Well, thanks guys for all the stuff you're saying in the chat. Appreciate it. As far as participation goes. If you want to check online, it should. I just uploaded it like five minutes ago and so the cells were still being populated. But in a few minutes, if you want to check online to make sure your participation choice was recorded properly. If it's 0, it means that I didn't have a response for you, or at least I didn't have a response when I uploaded the file. One means asynchronous that you chose asynchronous, uh, two means you chose synchronous and a free means you opted out. And I'm sorry, what do we have to have this code. But Canvas does not. Let me put a text into the grade report box unless it's an ADCP grade. So sorry about that. Here's the little key. Let me know if you have questions, let me know. Just send me a direct email. If something is one recorded improperly, you didn't want it recorded that way for some reason there's an error or maybe. We took an earlier response in you change your response and we didn't act, we absolutely didn't take your most recent response. And then also email me if you have a 0, just e-mail me with what you do prefer. If I don't hear from these people been synchronous will be the default grade scheme. Any questions about that or anything else? Yeah. So if yours is a 0 and you submitted something, it was probably just either I recall I downloaded it before you responded or for some reason I'm Mr. response. So just go ahead and send me a direct email. If it's blank, it just means that I think the file is still uploading. So maybe check like after right after class. Any other logistical questions? Okay. Instructors reacting. Instructor working on grades just means that it's still uploading. 0 means I don't have something recorded for you. When we, when will. So if you've got a 0, just send me an email with your preference. And That's my email. And just put participation in the subject line. Zapped is due Friday. It's another question I'm seeing in the chat, so do that by Ben. It's supposed to only take like 20 minutes. Okay. Yeah. So it should be under participation choice recorded in the Canvas grade book. If it's blank, just check back and like a half hour it was still uploading ten minutes ago when I looked. Okay. And don't panic if there's something wrong with this. This is a work in progress this week, so we'll make sure it gets corrected by the time it matters. Okay. So last time we left off talking about one of the things I have office hours today. So if you're concerned about participation issues or whatever, feel free to stop by the office hours and talk to me directly. I think we left off talking about biological preparedness and different examples of this idea that we're hardwired tolerance or things easier than other things. One of the general examples I gave was approach and avoid behavior. We're going to, it's going to be easier to train an animal to do an approach behavior for a reward, for a desired, desirable thing. It's going to, because that's our automatic responses to approach something that we want or beat will be rewarded for. Um, so it's difficult to train a, you know, approach and avoid behavior or running away to a reward. For example. And there's certain cue consequence combinations that are easier to condition or to form an association between. And we talked about this sort of scenario where there's two different queues. The queues are a sweetness or the sound of the click. And the consequences are nausea or a shock pain. And what we talked about was that when there is an association that is more natural in our environment, something that would actually happen in the world, like in our evolutionary history. Like a taste being associated with something that then causes nausea, or something like a Sound resulting in physical pain. The examples we talked about with, with this was like a noxious plants. There's a taste to it. It results in Najera sound something like a rattlesnake and then a byte. These pairings existing naturally. And so an aversion being acquired for those things. Where as if you tried to pair click with the resulting nausea, that acquisition is not learned. And so this is just an example of biological preparedness and classical conditioning. And we'll see a lot of examples like this throughout the day to day, that it's not just pairing two things together, associating two things that results in learning. There's a lot of complexity and nuance to what is learned and what isn't learned. And one of them is this idea of biological preparedness. Just talked about that, that, and I don't know if I mentioned this last time. So taste aversion is a really strong thing because we have such a biological preparedness for taste aversion, associating a taste with later nausea. It's just really important to our early man, early man survival rate or animals in general, survival is figuring out what foods made them sick. That most learning takes many pairings. Taste aversion is something that doesn't require it. Just a one trial learning. For chemotherapy. Cancer patients that are undergoing chemotherapy, they often, it's, it is a really problematic because they're nauseous a lot of time and so they start to develop, and because it just takes one trial, they start to develop all of these negative associations with all of these different types of food and don't want to eat anything. And so what they started to do is use scapegoat tastes. So a flavor that's like unusual, something that you don't encounter all the time. So it's really salient like root beer, like a root beer lifesaver. They'll give these to the patients right before they get chemotherapy so that if you had, you know, Keen wall right before your treatment session and then you eat the root beer and then you feel nauseous, you're going to blame it on the root beer flavor, not the food that you ate. That's a way to protect appetite in chemotherapy. So does anybody have any fun examples of, I think I asked this last time, maybe I didn't find examples of one, trial taste aversion learning. I did this for my padlet. Well, yeah, I used to go like kidney stone before. There was super painful. And I remember like the furniture, the tastes of the, like the smell of the furniture. Whenever I smell dot furniture, I write, it reminds me about the pain that is as condescending. Oh, interesting. So what was the pain from? Not sure, I totally caught that. What are you saying? Look about the patent. Has ovum kidney stones on got a nice contaminants. Go when I was little, I got like a really, really bad flu and I asked for like a week and a half and I ate so much like English or French bread during that time, like this awesome buttery bread. And then I wondered a second, I was not sick. I was just disgusted by it. Really. Like to this day. I don't think I do add stone. Yeah, that's funny. There's things when somebody saying some of their mom's pregnant their brother, and burnt popcorn. Oh yeah. Totally interesting. Yeah. When I was pregnant with Miles, I there's like just ahead morning sickness and there are things like copy for really went on. I overcame this because I love coffee. But I'd made me nauseous and for nine months I couldn't stand the smell of coffee and I had to force myself to just drink it without getting sick because I loved it so much before that I overcame it. Oftentimes people have, in this class have alcohol examples. So there was like when you first start drinking, he went to a party and you drank too much and it was like a very specific type of alcohol. Fireball? Yeah. And fire and this is an interesting thing about something like fireball, right? Which is like the root beer, that it's going to have a really distinctive taste. And we're going to see later on when we talk about how we acquire condition responses, the more salient and specific and intense stimulant is, the more stimulus as the more of a association we're going to form. Yeah. So another example, biological preparedness. It just takes one trial. There's very other there's very few other types of things we learn to be condition two with just one trout, but this is important. Okay, so let's do a poll actually. Curious here. Who is afraid? I'm set. It says raise your hand, but instead, let's do this. In another class. They were talked like a bio class instead like spiders to fly across the ocean. Because like that's just like a natural thing they do to populate, mourn. And ever since then I've just been like screw spiders. Women. I did not know that. Yeah. Basically shoot their webs into the air and that carries them. Whoa, that's so interesting. I did not know that. Yeah, it's like, it's like like a super spider with superpowers, even scarier. There were times when I tried to like squash spiders, but then they would like magically jumped to me and like a split second and it always catch me off guard over time that would give me a fear of spiders. So used to not be afraid. But then it And there's and then I got like reports that there's like poisonous spiders around my house or I got even more afraid. Yeah. My husband gives me so much crowd for this one time there was when I was looking at me. So I was in grad school at UCSD and there was a brown recluse like infestation that I had gotten an e-mail about and I was cleaning something out and I developed this like this like swelling, read spreading mark on my hand. And I was convinced I'd been bitten by a poisonous spider and print out that i just like broken a blood vessel or something, but I spent like ours in the ER and he will never let me forget that. So 58% of people saying Yes, we'll talk about why I'm asking about snakes. Launch this. Oops. I feel like when it comes to spiders or snakes or things of this nature, as long as they don't bother me or touched me, I don't mind them. They can exist. We're sure. Well, I guess if it's coming at me, I'm going to scream and I will run away. Scared. Sure. Yeah. I think I would say no then in that case, like I'm the same way with spider's really like if when my friend Michelle will I run out of the room to somebody kills the spider, but the gap retinal and crawling on you. But it's not like something that really elicits a strong fear response for me. So we got a 50-50 on this one. Also. Let's skip that one. How about irregular patterns or clusters of small holes or bumps? I had it as a blank screen and I wasn't going to show the image and I was going to give you a trigger warning, but I forgot to do that. For people that are really bothered by this, just look away. I shouldn't be eating during the class. I think I'm not necessarily afraid, more like disgusted as you, right? Yeah. I think probably every day. I think the left is fine, but the right is o. That's for me too. Yeah. We'll talk about why this isn't a second, or potentially where this is about clowns. I have never understood the fear of clouds. Like I do not understand where it came from or why all of a sudden people are so afraid of them. I feel like one year someone woke up and was like, I'm afraid, and everyone, all of a sudden it's a free media is movies at the movie or something like that. And one for everything else I've asked you about. There's roughly 50% or more. This, for this 184% of people are saying no. That's where they get a big reason. Clouds or scary or because they have the painted smile on their face. So like you can't really, it's hard to tell what they're feeling because then the painted smile. But interesting, interesting. Yeah, I mean, I, I definitely think there, there's, there's something a little bit potentially creepy about clouds. And then you've got like the Joker and you've got it and you've got these sort of things and movies. I'm so I think what this is that of impacting. I don't like clowns, but I, I also not, I guess I'm not really afraid of any of these things. Logical feel, fear, spiders, snakes, heights, open spaces. This is a new one. Not as many people afraid of clouds. And so the idea is, I'm asking you, this is sort of an example of this preparedness theory of phobias. And the idea is that it's not that we've had necessarily some experience with these things that's scary. It's just that we're biologically prepared to fear things that survive, threatened the survival of our species evolutionary history. So we might have a bad experience with spider, like Gabriel was saying, that triggered this. But we're just more predisposed if your, these things, we saw class, this sort of a little bit anecdotal class data, right? We're spiders and snakes. And this irregular holes. More than 50% of people saying they didn't, in the case of Holt didn't like it or we're afraid of it. But clouds only 16%. And this is sort of consistent with his preparedness theory of phobia is at the top. Phobias are things that threaten our evolutionary survival, even if they're not much of a threat to us today, like spider, not really much of a threat to us today. Like unless you're a very small child, are very old, fragile person. You'll be fine if you get bit by even a very poisonous spider. I was told this when I went to the ER with the spider, right? He's like you're helping you're young, like it's even if you got bit by a brand reckless, you'd probably be fine. Okay, so and then this irregular whole thing is that as a new one, the idea is there's different theories about it. But one is that it's an, you know, it's more intense for people when it's like put on images, put on skin. So it could be that it's mimicking infectious disease that we want to avoid. Other theories are that it mimics this sort of visual properties of certain venomous insects. So reasons why we might have this sort of evolutionary response. Ok, so those are all, those are all sort of examples of this biological study of biological preparedness. And we're kind of, we're gonna sort of talking about these, these types of learning and types of changes in our response that are not necessarily associated. And then we're going to move on to talking about classical conditioning or associative learning, pairing things together. So one type of non-associative learning. So if you go into a room and you hear this You might, you're studying in the library or something. You might sort of fixate on the clock for a little while and be distracted by it. But within a few minutes in the room, you're not going to even notice the clock ticking anymore. Somebody says, taking is really therapeutic. Yeah, actually the name of this YouTube video, it was like relaxing clock ticking or something like that. And so this is a classic example of what's called habituation. So it's a decrease in the strength of a stimulus to elicit a response after repeated presentations. So it might distract you for a little while, you might focus on it. But eventual obey. That attention is no longer focus on the stimulus. And this can be first somewhat more intense stimuli to like when I lived in a few different places where they're sort of in the flight path ones like bankers Hill, Hillcrest border in San Diego. And at first we got this apartment. It was like pretty cheap, pretty cool. Okay. We couldn't handle the planes. It might be annoying, but but within a week or two, I didn't even notice the planes and so people would come over to our apartment that how do you live with these planes flying overhead and was like we don't even notice it anymore. So that's habituation. That's sort of fun example of habituation is the Coolidge effect. So this idea that he can't sexual arousal in males of some species, i when presented with non habituated females. So it comes from this little, this joke. I won't tell the joke because I think the last time I tried to tell this joke in class that I totally botched it didn't make any sense. You should say it. I'll practise it next time. Okay, well, if you haven't finished reading, you can read it on the slides up the Coolidge effect and aspect of habituation. And then the, the flip side to habituation is or the opposite. Oh, yeah, let's do this. Can you think of something that you've habituated to in the summer? I sort of habituate to the sound of my desk fan because I don't have a ceiling fan to cool me off in the summer. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So I have to put a bill fan right on my desk in front of my bed. And even though it's blasted all night, I just don't really hear. That's a perfect example. Yeah, that's a really another example just reminded me of is like my, my child's like white noise machine. We first had miasma flipping at this white noise machine, you sleeping in a room. And for the first unit, just like we're never going to sleep with this thing, but yeah, I don't even hear it anymore. Sometimes I've been like I had it on because it like turned on at noon for his nap time when he's home. And like, I've been in a meeting, like What is that sound in the background? I'm like, I don't even hear it anymore. And any other ones. I think. Okay. I have a habituated about Tim, I like full alarm. That Morning alarm goes down. Like, oh, that's a really good one so that the sound you've had the same alarm for awhile and then knee so it stops waking you up? I kinda wake up but I don't remember my alarm go off. Yeah. Yeah, that's it. That's interesting. And that's also happened to be asking you need to change or change your alarm, Maybe the sound of it periodically. Yeah. I have a habituation way like now and I wear my headphones, like forget I have them on a lot of the time. Do we have at this point? Yeah. Yeah. And so you really can't hear. I've actually had that. I never thought this would happen. But with a mask like when I when we first started wearing masks, I was like I had locally in the car. And I'd be like, why is that person bones riding with their mascot and what is wrong with them? Do they not understand how viruses work like this is insane. And then not, not that long ago, I was driving and I had my mask on Isaac. I've had this on for like a half hour and I just totally stopped noticing it. Yeah. I'm Ashwin is weird because I work eight hours a day. Uh-huh. So I'll have 2007. And then if I go to the store and have it on and I go in the car. I'm Mike was I'm wearing my mask like Ray elite. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is a really good one, really good example to take a longer time for me with that one. And this is just because it's weird to have something on your face. And then sensitization is sort of the other extreme, which is it's an increasingly strengthen stimulus to elicit a response. And so with repeated presentations or it being around a lot and you suddenly start paying attention to it more, it starts to bother you. More. Examples of business people I think I saw, it's whizzed by in the chat, but somebody said something about being in the military. But the idea is that if you even folder is as at war and really loud, booming sounds are now and that when they return to the civilian world, are going to elicit a heightened response. So like a car backfiring or something like that is going to, is there are sensitized to it. They have a more extreme reaction to that same stimulus as before this experience. Does anybody want to posit a hypothesis about what, what type of stimulus leads to habituation and what type of stimulus would lead desensitization? I think like habituation and would be more from stimulus that is perceived as non-threatening. And then sensitization plans like if you're used to being around last stimulus and you're used to it being essence a signal danger. And there'll be more. Yeah, absolutely. So it tends to exactly what Jessica said, that if habituation happens when you're like, oh, that clock, it's a change in my environment. I should pay attention to it. Oh, it's completely not frightening. It's it's bringing no new information or meaning to my situation. I can totally ignore it. Whereas sensitization is, you've learn that this stimulus means danger. And so you should pay attention to it. And the more you're around it, the more you learn you need to pay attention to that symbolise any examples of sensitization? Of I have an example. Yeah. So mine is based particularly the alarm clock example, complete opposite, which hasn't been there. Every time I hear that shame alarm rank, even though I'm awake, I have this urge to wake up when I'm away. Yeah. And it like I don't know, it bugs me every time because I know my friends are aware that I have listed just randomly play larvicide that she handle. Yeah. You didn't change your learners. They can't do that to you anymore. Yeah, I've definitely had that to like a certain sound that like, yeah, if your alarm goes off like, you know, I'll have you I'm set for waking up, especially if I was going to cross it at 530 in the morning and I was like, I'm super tired and I hate the Soundcloud together at 530. And then I have that same Alarm Sound sent to remind me to do something. And I have this like awful response to the sound. That's a good example. So yeah, our sensitize sounds just trigger sounds to me, like even if they're not dangerous to us, I have an intense trigger for no reason at all of the sound that plays on an airline, that the PA sound that comes on on an airplane when the flight attendant talks. And like that makes me perk up every time no matter where I hear it, I just like cringe. But would that be considered sensitization even though Yeah, it would. So, so so the actual definition of sensitization versus habituation is, habituation is a decrease in the strength of the stimulus to elicit a response. And sensitization is an increase in the strength of stimulus to elicit a response. So that's the definition of these things, and so it totally fits the definition of sensitization. Then on top of that, we're saying like why might we have these different pathways between? And so the hypothesis as to why is that one is threatening and one is not threatening. But yeah, we're coming up with examples where we can't think of an actual threat to these things. But but it would still be considered citizens. Oh, yeah. And if you think about just how we're wired to respond to things, there's so many things in our modern world, right, that aren't going to click cleanly fit into these evolutionary explanation because they just didn't exist at the time, right? But there are enough similar to something that would be threatening maybe. If you ever have a baby baby crying sensitive, sensitized annulus, it doesn't, but you do not habituate to it and you do not ignore it. Which is, you know, make sense. Ok, so that is not associative learning. It's just a repeated stimulus is not being paired with anything necessarily. So now we're going to talk about behavioralism and move on to talking about things. It is associative, classical conditioning and operant conditioning will repairing different stimuli together, learning a connection between them. And so this is a quote by a famous quote by John Watson. Give me a dozen healthy infants well-formed and my own specified and my own specified world in which to bring them up. And I'll guarantee to take any one at random and train him to become any type of specialist. I might select doctor, lawyer, artist, merchant, chief, and yes, even better men and thief, regardless of his talents, pensions, tendencies, abilities, vocations, and race of his ancestors. And so this is a very extreme quote, basically saying that everything is nature over nurture. That everything has to do with learning and associations reform in our environment. You put someone in the right environment with the right punishments and the rightward rewards, you can shaped them to be anything that you would like. So obviously very extreme. You and another tenant that we already talked about about the behavioral says we can't talk about mental representation. We can only talk about stimulus and responses. So clearly we do not in cognitive science hold this view today we noticed a lot more about human behavior and genetics and all sorts of things like that. But this was the stance of the hater lists, really behavioralist and classical conditioning, shut the door. The ice cream truck is going but MIT miles is conditioned to respond to that sound. Classical conditioning is it's involuntary, it's reflexive type of behavior that occurs in response to a stimulus. And I think it's really easy to house or of a, to something to sink our teeth into. No pun intended. This food bell. Stimuli is like the classic example. You, you ring a bell, you give the dog food. Ventrally, the dog is going to salivate, not just to the food, much of the bell. And we'll talk about that in more detail so that as classical, classical conditioning, classic classical conditioning example. And then operate behaviour is it's another form of associative learning. It's another form of conditioning, but it involves what's called an operant behavior. So it's a voluntary control behavior that the animal or person is doing something voluntary. So the difference between salivating, this reflexive behavior a dog does to a bell before it gets that predicts food. An operant behavior would be a rat pressing a lever or a pigeon pecking at a key and oper. So it's like doing something voluntary. And operant conditioning. Another way to think of operant conditioning, the actual real definition of operant conditioning is the future probability of a behaviour is affected by the outcome. So if a behavior pressing a lever or is followed by positive outcome, then that behavior lever pressing is going to occur more. If the behavior is followed by negative outcome, say a shock, the behavior is going to occur less. And so it's an operant conditioning that we talk about these terms, punishment and reward. A punisher. We'll talk about this in more detail. Punisher being something that reduces the probability of the behavior occurs. And a reinforcer being something that increases the probability that a behavior occurs. And so this, this is probably familiar to you. I have taught this class several times now and taking classes on as many times. And I, the, the US, the EU are the UC like, although like abbreviations throw me off. So I want to just walk through it and talk about these terms and specifically what they mean. Because we're going to be using them to talk about more complex ideas going forward. So before conditioning, you have the unconditioned stimulus. And the unconditioned stimulus is that it didn't take conditioning for you to produce a response. So something like salivation to food. The unconditioned stimulus is the food. And the unconditioned response is drooling. So this existed before the experiment started. You had this response to the stimulus. Then you have a neutral stimulus. And so before conditioning this other stimulus, the bell, is neutral, it doesn't illicit, and it doesn't elicit the behavior we're interested in. And so salivating in this case, you ring the bell. No salivation occurs. So it's neutral, at least with regard to this behavior of salivation, causes no response. During the conditioning procedure. You pair these things, the neutral stimulus, the bell, but does not elicit any response. And the unconditioned stimulus, the food, the thing that you didn't need to condition in order to produce this response, the unconditioned response drool. These are paired over and over and over again. And what happens is the neutral stimulus, the ns, becomes a conditioned stimulus, CS. With those repeated pairings. Now that ns becomes a CS and what it means to become a cs, what it means for an n has to become a conditioned stimulus is that it alone now elicits that response, which is called the CR. So it's the same behavior. Drooling can be the unconditioned response when food was the thing that caused it. And it can be the conditioned response if the bell was the thing that caused it. So you can see how it's a simple idea, but there's all of these sort of acronyms or abbreviations getting a little bit like tedious to keep, you know, tease apart. And even now I have to kind of think and be like, okay, where does that thing Mead and I like to sort of, when you move away from the bell and food example and get into more complicated paradigms. It's helpful to come back to the food and Bell example and be like, okay, this is with a CSAs and this example, this is what the CR as in this example. And then you can apply that to a novel scenario. Was that helps me. I'm professor. Yeah. Or like for me, like an example for this is like when I open a bag of Cheetos and I smell it, I'm like salivating. I don't know if that click because the hace dos are so hot that they may, might like like it's like a natural for me to like have more saliva going up or it's like the taste of it. So you're salivating before? Like when I smell them. When you smell, Yeah. And so the smell itself can elicit a salivation response, right. So but that would still be unconditioned, right? Because it's in that example, you could maybe say that the sound of the bag of money, if you wanted to put it in these sorts of terms, the sound or the bad opening maybe is the conditioned stimulus, right? Because that sound doesn't cause you to salivate, but it means the smell is coming. Okay. All right. So let's just make sure I understand all these terms. So what we're gonna do is we're going to watch this video and then I'm going to ask you to tell me what all the different terms or in relation to this video to reboot. Again. Do I do? What do you think? What are you doing? But I don't know why. My mouth tastes so bad all of a sudden. To reap. Okay. We'll take, let's say three minutes. In breakout rooms. Talk about this slide is on canvas. So if you want to open canvas, you can look at this image in the room or just take a screenshot now does remember it. Mm-hm. How are things going, Gary? Things are good. You know, it's still early in the quarter, so things I haven't picked up too much yet, thankfully. Good. We'll see how I feel the next two or three weeks? Yeah. Yeah. Like a slow ramp up and then I feel like in week 67 is for me is like the hard weeks. Yeah. It's a it depends it really depends on like that quarter and professors like how they want to space out there midterms for yeah. Because for me, regardless of any of that though, weak a is just always the worst. I think it's because it's so close. And I think that's where how I see Week seven is. Week seven feels to me. It's like close enough to the end without being able to really see the light at the end of the tunnel. Maybe that's what we get. O which makes sense because we kinda your week seven because finals week is kind of like I've written the final and I can relax a little bit. So it's the same phenomenon from a student's perspective actually is like because you have one extra read tagged on. Ok. And especially during fall quarter. Oh, I don't know. Are there still people in rooms? Right. Because during fall quarter like week a is usually one fall break is so you get that little bit of time off. So you get a case of winter break? Yeah. You don't fully get the whole Drake? Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Okay. All right. Does somebody want to walk through these terms with the Office of mind than neutral stimulus would be this sound from the computer. And then the unconditioned stimulus would be the, the, the mains. And then that the condition stimulus afterwards would be that computer zone and then that condition response would be fake reaching out for them in. Perfect. Perfect. Yep. Got it. Yeah, I don't think this is kind of a useful exercise to take these terms like reapply them just to like keep them straight. Because now we're gonna kinda be talking about this general paradigm with some different tweak, some manipulations. Any questions about this? Okay? We're at 244 zeros going after this. Alright, lets try this question. Even though I just flashed the answer really quickly, maybe you weren't looking. Okay. Click into if you haven't. Yeah. So a MySQL saying Hey, Greece, a few people saying B and C. So B, what would be an example? How would you change the scenario to make it sensitization instead of habituation? They give their ring was too small and you would feel it every time. And then over time it would be like probably more unbearable. Yeah, it starts to get more and more irritating the longer you wear it. Ok. So acquisition is just the term we use to refer to the process of strengthening, strengthening a conditioned response. So acquisition is going to happen more rapidly. More quickly when the unconditioned stimulus, something like food, like for a dog, my dog for example, like dry food versus not actually what the cathode he loves cathode doesn't really like dry dock, everybody loves dry cathode. So for He would develop this association, this strength of the conditioned response salivation in this case would be stronger if the unconditioned stimulus that I was using to condition him was cat food instead adopted a more intense unconditioned stimulus. And then the same thing about the neutral stimulus. So maybe a soft bell versus a loud bell is pair. It predicts the food. So if a soft bell predicts the cat food, There's going to be less salivation than if a loud bell predicts the cathode. And so it happens more quickly and also the asymptote, whats called the asymptote of acquisition is higher. So the general level of salivation, Not only is it going to happen faster, but it's going to reach a more intense level of the conditioned response. Ok, and this is a whole different experiments that's going to take probably ten minutes to talk about. So we'll stop here hanging out and you have quick logistical or content question. Come to my office hours. If you have 100 questions. See you guys hopefully on Friday. Gear things every Wednesday. Again, question about like the padlet. So yeah, true. I don't know. Is it I kinda Sida for that. I can log in with my UCSD like coun set is limited for me like only three panelists doesn't mean like I can enjoying walk late, just one pilot or is it for the creating or enjoying? Like there's still, I think, I think for the free account you can only have three. And so what? This is a really good point that will have to pay attention to is we'll just have to make sure we record the grades and eliminate that Padlet wall. Okay. Here's the next one. Yeah. That's kind of annoying. I didn't think about that. Yeah. She's not sure. Is it like the palette I can enjoying or the pilot I can create so i don't always number. Yeah, I don't know either. Actually. I think the way I did it was like when I first went through Canvas, I would follow your account. Once I I followed you, it would show all the pilots. You have. I but that's how I sort on my side. But I had to like make it a cow outside of pressing the link. But once you press the link, it was like a little easier. Okay. Well, yeah, so create the account first. You'll create it through because I think Canvas hundreds so that when you press the link on the module that automatically associates your UCSC email address to the Padlet. Like there's some way they do that. And then that's how you create the account. That's all I didn't personally. So I have to like Tom's a palette in a different laying and then Light Side awkward, right? Yeah. So I think if you press like the one of the first times we did it and it will ask you to like, either make an account we're picking, like put your email subversively. All you have to do it the first time, but you'll have to go on public itself. You just do that through the link provided in the modules. Had it. So you're saying that it won't be limited to three for you probably because it's not part of your Padlet me stuff and I haven't seen that yet since I don't think we have a third Padlet. Yeah. So all just make sure to like record the grades and delete earlier padlet so that you're not in a position to not be able to as gay? Yeah. Yeah. If I just delete the first two which we've already recorded stuff for are the first one and an old when I had so OK. Yeah. Thanks for bringing that up. It's a good point. Yeah, just notice that. And also for like add the debt lifo, it'll be like dN will we? It is Friday night. Yeah. Friday when it's due, Friday at midnight or these these two things are due. Zaption. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. And sorry, I'm puzzle half they question like relating to habituation, shirt on. So you say that like if sake, it's more like a when we're getting used to a stimulus like it doesn't modest anymore rate. So it is, the way you say it is not necessarily bother. It's, it could, it's the intensity of the response. Basically, say you operationalized it by operationalize it in different ways, right? Jumping as the behavior, right? So if it's a really loud now I'm like a noise like a bomb going off or something like that. You're going to increase your jumping behavior and that is going to get more intense versus, versus if it's an airplane flying by. And I jumped the first time maybe, but then it buy response decreases over time, such as an increase or a decrease in whatever behavior you happen to be measuring. Okay, so so can I take an example like if you got late, when you've got a new car, you become very excited every time you drive it. Then late, but over time you kind of get used to it late. Yea, play. Yeah. It used to exist late. A, an example of habituation. Say you get used to stuff. It's, it's, it's, it's you could definitely use that term colloquially. I don't like it's a more complex cognitive behavior, right? Rather than just the response to a simple stimulants are usually the term habituation. And like behavioural terms, refers to a more simple, easily quantified behavioral or easily define behavioral response. But in, but in the that is the spirit of habituation. Oh, okay. Sure. Thank you so much. And I have a question about the recorded participation choice. Yes. So I'm supposed secluded grades on canvas and then like where it says out of score and then out of the out of part is the number that I'm supposed to see. Yeah, what number do you see? A C 0, but I chose synchronous. Okay. So I see it. I see it as oh, this is not okay. It was not visible to your recorded as to which is synchronous. Came home isn't visible for you. So I'm probably gonna get a ton of emails that are based on the fact that I had not made that visible. Oops. Thank you. You're welcome. Any other question? Rather than a move to my office hours?