 Okay, hey guys. Another minute for people to trigger. Did anybody else just experience the crazy hail storm? I'm like, I live by SDS you and adjust. Hailed like crazy. I'm on campus at UCSD in inches and super super windy all night and this morning, right? Yeah. Or or shade sails blew down are like lights on our patio. Like everything was like broken this morning. And just now that was like I've only got it's snowing resident. That's that's hale, but it's sort of like snow. Okay. Let's get started. So first things, any logistical questions that we should address right now? Or the the the quiz due tomorrow, correct? Yeah, the quizzes due tomorrow. We got it up a little late and also I didn't want the last one do on holiday, so everything kinda got shifted one so yeah, it'll be due tomorrow. So just to be clear, the because we have to do Quiz two is that a week 2's content or week three's content? I kinda lost track. Yeah. So the one that's due today will be two weeks back. So it'll be host David Right after the materials covered. Okay. Though. So the, so the, so the, for example, the quizzes that will be posted today will cover last week's material. Okay then yeah. Sorry about the confusion. So good. A little hard to keep track of what covered with bales covered when Any other questions? I just have one quick question about the that. So I'm not going to say the question. I believe that for me it was question seven. I don't know if they're like randomly generated for each student. But there was one question that was structurally as a sentence, I didn't understand it at all. Okay. They're all in the same order because question seven For me, but only you afterwards. I'll look at it. Yeah, email me afterwards. Then. I also look really closely at the quiz statistics. And so that usually is good at revealing like a question that a lot of people both and then I can eliminate it. All. I'll make sure to look closely at questions. I didn't actually, I remember I couldn't, I couldn't email you after because the quiz gets muted. So I can't look back at the quiz. It was seven. If they do, yeah. Yeah. Thank you for bringing it up. Anything else? Had Professor ageism, One more quick question for social cognition or the well, does Week one counts for touristic, great, or we can jump the, jump one, the weak one. Everybody gets participation points for that because we didn't I didn't instruct you properly out to post it with the relevant information to give you credit. Oh, I see. Thank you so much. I'm just giving him for that. We can also, a lot of people weren't in the class yet and it's kinda just practice. And then go cognition in the wild. And the new quiz will both be posted today. So in general, those things will be posted at some point on Mondays. Alrighty. So today we're going to be talking about sort of the last module in this category of implicit learning. And Broadway, I'm just calling it Statistical Learning. We might call it statistical learning and pattern recognition is sort of the general theme here. And so I started out with this quote by William James. You might have heard of very famous quote in psychology. The baby a sale by eyes, ears, nose, skin and n trails at once. Feels it all as one great blooming, buzzing confusion. So you'll, you'll, you'll hear people talk. And then throw around the term blooming, buzzing confusion. And the idea here is, you know, the, the infant comes into this world with no context, no structured knowledge required to sort of make sense of all of the sensory input that it's getting. And this is what William James refers to as his blooming buzzing confusion. And so one of the big questions in understanding the mind, understanding human cognition and development is, how do we go from this thing we imagine as this blooming, buzzing confusion to something that makes sense and how structure. And so one very broad category of learning is what we referred to as statistical learning. And it's based on this idea that there are regularities and patterns and redundant information that isn't present in the world. It's present in language, it's present in text, It's present in visual scenes. And so the question is, this statistical regularity that's present in the world? Can humans take advantage of that statistical regularity? And is it somehow making sense of the statistics in the world being sensitive to the statistical regularities in the world that help us to sort of narrow down and make sense of that blooming, buzzing confusion and start to impose structure on its other wise, chaotic stream of sensory input. And so the statistical learning is not how we learn statistics. And which has a question I've gotten the past, a confusion I've gone in the past from students. Statistical learning is just this learning mechanism that facilitates the detection of structures, patterns, and regularities in our world that we can then bootstrap learning from. And so this term, statistical learning, was actually first used and demonstrate it in research on infant language acquisition. And so this is a really famous, probably in the top 50 most famous research articles and cognitive science and psychology. Saffron as when a Newport 1996, it's this demonstration of invincibility to pick up on statistical regularity is too long to segment speech. So I have a clip, I guess I didn't include it in the slide. But if you listen to or you could just like Google, like if you language that you don't speak. I'm I usually have Swahili news caster. And what that language will sound like is just a stream. Of, of Lang without any clear segmentation between words. And so as an infant, we need to learn language. We need to learn the individual words in our language. But that's sort of a secondary problem because first we need to actually figure out what are the segments themselves. And if you listen to the speech stream of a language, are not familiar with, it's really clear that it's not always obvious where one word ends and another word begins. And so it's a difficult problem. This, how do we learn to segment speech in order to then learn the words? And if we don't first have advanced knowledge of what the words in our language, our, how do we break them into words, units without knowledge of the actual units themselves? It sort of seems like a circular problem. And so in this study, what they did was this is going to take a minute. So the original experiment was two minutes. I'm gonna play this beach stream for one minute for you guys. And I really just think it's easier to actually go through the steps of the experiment to understand what they did. Rather than me just kinda telling you the steps. So first, take out a piece of paper, open up a Word document or whatever on your computer and just label it 123456. We're not gonna do anything with this Word document or piece of paper now. But after we do the training, there'll be a test and I'll have you write down some yes or no responses. You a second to do that. Okay, so now you're going to hear just a stream of speech. Coco, move ladder that the Bible lambda times du ba da da ba, ba ba da da ba ba, ba, ba, ba, ba, ba, ba, ba, ba. Move ladder be Guo Qu Taotie but have to move ladder Taotie, bamboo bladder be Guo Qu Taft do move latter daffy bamboo bladder time do Baghdadi. Before who move ladder be Guo Qu Taft to be Guo Qu mudflats. 50, Taft to be Guo Qu De Gaulle. Who do lat doh, doh, de, doh, doh be goal, minute as a longtime. Okay, so now what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna play, so the test stimuli here, six syllabus suitable pairings. And you paid to write down yes or no. Was this a word? Was this a part of the language that you heard or was it not part of the language? Here's kinda have to go on your kind of intuition here. Laughter. Laughter, b, t, b, go be co, cu daddy. Okay. So basically what you just did wires adult version of the saffron experiment that they did with infants. And so these were the six test trials, test questions that you've heard and then you should have written a yes or no response. And these are the correct responses just in case you're curious. So let's just try this just out of curiosity. So I'm opening a generic pole, so just answer a or B. There will be all the way to E, but just a or B or the relevant choices. And in Nepal, okay, cool. So most people are getting more than half so above chance. I didn't, I never do on this. I've heard it a million times. For some reason. I'm just really bad at this amazing I've ever learned language. So yeah, so this is what they did with infant. So how did they ask infants this question of which one's wasn't part of language or was it not? Jump to? Actually, I'll talk about that in a second. But basically, instead of asking babies, of course, they just did a looking time paradigm talk about that in a second. But basically they asked him the same question. So this demonstrated this idea of statistical learning as this mechanism that facilitates the detection of segmentation between words. And so the idea here was that base into the speech stream. And there were these four words, each with three syllables as you guys were typing into the chat. And so each one of these was the a word and this made up language and it was read as you heard him as monotone, no acoustic indicators of those word boundaries. And so the only thing the infant would have to go on was the pattern, right? What the researchers called the transitional probabilities. So some syllables are gonna be more likely to proceed. Others, so Beulah, DO, ego coup. As a part of the speech stream. Who are law always follows Bu, DO always follows law because it's part of that word. But then there's this transition point. The words are presented or read in a random order, and there's three words. So there's this 33% chance that b will, will come after DO, right? So there's less of a chance that, there's that transitional probability is lower than the within Word probability. And so this is the statistical information present in the question is, do infants pick up on, on the fact that there is this probabilistic structure in this speech stream. And so to test this, as I said, they did this preferential looking tasks. So usually the way that you ask a baby a question without them being able to verbalize it. Is U, for example, say you're interested in if they can tell colors apart. You present them with some stimulus until they're sick of it, so until they habituate to it so that you just present them with the color red over and over and over and over again. And babies prefer things that are novel. So if you, after you have habituated them to the color red, you then show them on the right side of the screen, a red stimulus and the left side of the screen or green stimulus. The idea is if they can detect differences in color, they should look longer or prefer to look at the green stimulus because it's novel. And the inference then is that they can tell color apart because they're sick of looking at the red one. They can tell the difference, therefore, they're going to look longer at the Greenland. And so they did this with a speech except for rather than have visual images, they just had speakers. And so they had, sometimes words would come out of one side of the speaker and sometimes words come out of a speaker in the other direction. And so the same preferential looking just at a Speaker rather than at a visual stimulus. And then they played the 16 syllable combinations. And they found that it was above chance that infants did in fact look longer at non words. So words or sound combinations that violated the probabilities that they had learned or will probabilistically unlikely given the speech stream that they had listened to for two minutes, right? It was really interesting after teaching, that's a couple times I, my, my son Miles, who you've heard a lot about the last couple of excuse me, at home when he was won and he was just really starting to learn language. We're at a nursery buying plants and we're talking to the salesperson. And he was speaking perfect English and Miles was just not paying attention to him at all. He's like digging in the dirt. And then he switch to Spanish when he got a phone call. And miles just like looked up and just stared at him the entire time that he was speaking. And it was interesting to me. It was like I sort of ecological validation of this, that he was surprised by this violation of these expectations about language. Or so it seemed anyways. And so this is proposed as the statistical learning. Learning these transitional probabilities between speech sounds. It's a potential mechanism for our infants learn to draw these boundaries between words. And then, you know, then you can start to learn the meaning of the words once you're able to sort of segment based on the statistical regularities. And so one question is, is this just something that exists to learn natural language? Or is this a more domain, general learning mechanism? And we'll just talk about one other study. But it seems there's overwhelming evidence that is a more domain general learning mechanism. I'll jump to that slide and defined domain general burst. So a domain general learning mechanism is the idea that we're born with a general mechanism, a general brain mechanism that exists to support and guide learning at a broad level, not for some particular type of information as opposed to, or as opposed to, sorry about that. As opposed to a domain specific learning mechanism where we're just learning something within a particular domain. Okay? So in this study done in 2002, they did essentially the exact same study. So you have, rather than a speech stream, you have a stream of visual input. And so the square and the plus sign would essentially be quote unquote word and this visual language, the circle and the square would be word in this visual language. And then they played this visual stream of shapes. And you had the same, you know, within quote word, transitional probability. And then this much lower transitional probability between the chunks. And they see similar results, right? So across different age groups, you see that the children are, look longer when there's a violation, when there's a lower transitional probability. For example, when you're shown the square and the dark triangles together, there's low transitional probability, novel combination. And so it seems that within the visual domain of a statistical learning is also robust. So yeah, so evident that it is domain general learning mechanism. And then a lot about this is still debated. So we show that infants do pick up on this, these probabilities, statistical regularity, and patterns in the world. But you know what type of information is tracked we pick up, we decide these things that we think are important, like the transitional probabilities between the sounds in a language between words, because we know that that's important. And then we tested infants can pick up on that, you know, the statistics. That because we know it's important. But the question then is, what's, there's all kinds of regularities and statistics present in everything in the world. Why is it that we're tuned or are we tuned specifically to some types of statistical regularity more than other types? And so one idea is kinda goes into this nature versus nurture kinda debate. You know, do we just have this domain, general statistical learning mechanism and we can learn any statistical regularities as easily as others? Or is it that we have more of a predisposition to learn some state types of statistical structure compared to others. Maybe we're tuned into particular statistical regularities and natural language, nor other statistical properties because it's not important for learning language. And that some sort of built-in mechanism that we have going into getting the input k. Say this repeated these slides. And so I defined statistical learning as a learning mechanism that facilitates the detection of structures, patterns, and regularities in the world. Sort of a subclass, you could say, of statistical learning is what I'm calling pattern recognition. So the cognitive process of matching information from a stimulus with some sort of information that we have stored in memory. So we need statistical learning in order to learn the structure of language in the world, the structure of visual stimuli in the world. But then a second problem is, how do we then use stored information to interact with new stimuli, new data that we're encountering in order to say, recognize a word or remember an object, things like that. And so there's a sort of class of sort of ideas and models of how we might go about pattern recognition. The ability to sort of match information out there in the world with statistical properties are models that we have stored. And so we're going to kind of talk about pattern recognition into two classes, two categories. So one is this more abstract level. And this is some of the stuff we've talked about in 180 to 100 a. And this is just a very general high level ideas about how we might go about sort of like statistical learning and that itself is a very high level domain general idea. We're going to look at sort of a high level domain, general properties of how we might go about recognizing patterns. And then we'll dive into some more specific models and theories that have been proposed about how we might recognize specific things. Objects, how we might learn printed to recognize printed words, how we might learn to recognize faces, things like that. Okay, any questions so far? Okay. We will march forward. So a distinction that you're probably familiar with, but it's worth mentioning. Again, is this distinction between bottom-up processing and top-down process. And so in cognition, we think about how we ultimately get a representation of something or form a memory of something, or perceive an object by this interaction of these two mechanisms. So bottom up processing is just sent the raw sensory stimuli, the raw data, all the information that is reaching the sensory receptors without interpretation. And then top-down processing refers to everything we bring to the table to interpret that sensory data and knowledge. Models of the world, statistical properties that we've learned, expectations, biases that we have that then help us interpret that, that raw data. So just an example of this. Ok, so what we're gonna do is if your last name starts with a through M, usually I do like rights other unless side of the room, it's not going to work here. So if your last name starts with an a through M, close your eyes and the other group will have a chance to close their eyes to. So I'm going to show a screen to the non eighth around people, non ether and people look at the screen. Okay, now a through M, people open your eyes and Andrew CSI, people close your eyes. And we're going to screen. Okay, everyone open your eyes. And now I want you to look at the stimulus and just keep in mind what your first interpretation as. What do you see? Ok. So if you were in the a through M group, what was the first object that you saw in the ambiguous figure? She might now see that it's a face or a person playing. What was the first thing? I'm going to open the poll. Okay? Didn't work. So it's always a gamble. So the first group saw this face. And so the prediction is that more people would see the face them, the jazz musician. There's one issue which is that it could just be that the jazz musician is more likely for everyone to see. So let's try the other group. So if you were in the N through Z group, what's the first object you saw? Oh, it did work. Okay. I have the groups confused. I think it worked. I'm reading the chat backwards. So the N3C people, what did you see? In the original stimulus? Okay. Khufu, It did work. So you guys saw the face and now you're more likely to interpret it as the face and the jazz musician. Previously, Those people didn't see the Japanese map. The jazz musician Great usually works. Usually I ask the question in a different way that doesn't confuse myself. So in a long winded way with some confusion. This demonstrates this idea of top-down, bottom-up processing, Right? So the people that saw the face first are more likely to interpret the same. So the point is that the same stimulus so that the bottom up information on the raw data is identical. But the top-down information is not that the information you were primed with, the information that you had sort of active in your mind, helps you interpret that stimulus. And the interpretation based on this bottom, this top-down information is going to be different. And of course, some people who saw the face first still saw the jazz musician, et cetera. But there could be, you know, maybe you're a jazz musician, maybe there's other top down influences. Maybe you're just the angle you're looking at the screen. So there's of course some noise in this, but overall, this pattern should generally hold. And so some other examples of this, you know, the same bottom up information is going to be interpreted differently based on the context, either as an H or an, a. Same data, same bottom up information interpreted differently based on the context or the top-down information. Skip that long-winded explanation, that's not worth it. Right? So that is the difference between bottom-up and top-down processing. Another example that I love is this paper that's, I think the papers called the Many lives of blob. And essentially what they do is they take the same visual stimulus, this blob, this fuzzy, whatever thing. And they put it in all of these different visual contexts and ask people what the object is. And in this instance it's a shoe up here, it's maybe a can of soda, It's a car or a person crossing the street. And so that's just as this demo of like same bottom of information, different top a top-down information is going to lead you to interpret that same stimulus differently. And then the, so that's this distinction in a bottom-up, top-down processing. And a very related idea is this idea of unconscious inference. And so in one-on-one a, we talk about this a lot in relation to properties. Models of the visual world that we've built up with experience that then allow us to interpret ambiguous stimuli in one way or another. But this, and I'll show you what I mean by that in a second. Or actually I'll show you that first, then I'll tell you how it applies more to this class. So in the visual domain, for example, you could see this, these four colored squares as just a flat surface where like pieces of paper or whatever. And most people have that interpretation. But it doesn't necessarily have to be for flat objects equal distance from the viewer. It could, for example, be what's in this image on the right here. For differently sized objects at different angles, at different distances from the viewer. And the actual retinal image that is cast would be identical. And so the question, envision was, you know, what, how is it that we go from an identical retinal image, the same bottom up information to have these interpretations that lead us to non-ambiguous conclusions about the visual world around us. When in theory, an infinite number of objects in the world could cause the same retinal image. And the idea of unconscious inference is that we perceive those objects and events that under normal circumstances would be most likely to produce the received sensory stimulation. So we avoid coincidence. For odd Foursquare's. We're looking at this on a computer screen for example. That's a fixed distance from us. There's all of this other contexts that we bring to bear on interpreting the stimulus. And so, given that context, what's the most likely receive sensory data? And most of the time, we sort of all agree that it's on one interpretation, even though there's an infinite number theoretically of different interpret interpretations based solely on the bottom up information based solely on that retinal image. And so this idea of unconscious inference is relevant to all different domains of cognition. In particular, we're going to talk a lot about it, a lot in relation to things like human memory ability. And sort of like how we take. Experiences that we've had. And those experiences can be, our memory of those experiences can be biased and shaped by our expectations of a situation. For example, if we go into, if we go to a restaurant and we are asked, you know, two days later, did you get your drinks before your dinner or did you get your dinner before your drinks? Even if you don't have a specific memory stored of getting your drinks before dinner, you can rely on this, these assumptions, these stored models that you have and interpret that memory based on this expectation you app stored, that it's way more likely that you bought your drinks first, then your dinner. And then that becomes incorporating those expectations becomes your memory. What's a restaurant? Yeah. Okay. So one other example. So what is this person doing in this image? It's on the phone. What's he looking at? Somebody seen this before? It's on if I'm looking at a computer is the usual inter interpretation. And in fact, he's not he's on a shoe looking at an upside-down trash can or the toaster over there. And the point is that sometimes we get it wrong, right? So like all of all the time when we're interpreting information, we're interpreting memories were interpreting visual stimuli, were relying on these unconscious inferences about what's going on. And so most of the time, the world does align with our expectations. It took a researcher manipulating the scene to purposely try to trick us to get us to arrive at this sort of false conclusion. And you have situations and like visual, the visual domain, like the dress, the black and blue dress versus a white and gold dress. If you know what I'm talking about there, where there's like these edge cases where our unconscious inferences between different people's slightly different. We come to different conclusions. But for the most part, we arrive at the same conclusion that have the stable representation of the visual world. We don't have perfect memory yet. We sort of reconstruct our memory based on these biases that we have using unconscious inference. We'll see this theme kind of repeated in this class. And you can think of unconscious. Students have often asked, what does the divestment, unconscious inference and top-down, bottom-up processing. So you can think of unconscious inference as the result of this interaction between bottom-up and top-down processing. And it's not different than unconscious inference. I am going to call it a formalization of unconscious inference. So this is just a, a popular computational approach that many researchers have used to try to formalize how unconscious inferences might work in domains like vision and memory. Particularly visual working memory, it's a popular approach. And so the idea is that the way this is formalized is you have so the blue Gaussian distribution here is the data, the raw sensory input, the raw stored memory, for example. And it's wider than these other distributions. It's noisier, there's less certainty there in, in the data in this instance, there's not a lot of certainty in the data. Maybe you saw the image really briefly, maybe it's a blurred image. And then you have peak distribution. So you have your prior information. This is akin to top-down information, the models and expectations that you're bringing to the situation. And then you have what's called the posterior. And this is just your perception or your judgment, your memory, whatever sort of outcome variable we're talking about. And that's going to be some mathematical combination of your data, the raw input, and your prior, the expectations you have the top down information. And so just to give you a little demo of this, so in a second and show you an image of a friend of mine. She's a CEO, she's got four young children. So it's going to flash really briefly. So 123. And then I'm gonna ask you, okay, how old do you think she is? Ok, so modal response, see 30? Well, some people think 35. And the idea here, and it's a little bit of a blunt force wave of making this point. But the idea here is just to demonstrate these different ideas. The posterior, the data, and the perception. So she's actually in this image, she's 25. She's actually closer to 35. Now, this is my friend Michelle. She's in a lot of the questions. She's like in the Golan Michelle question about why, how do you get a job and not talk about girls? Talk to girls at parties. So this is Michelle. She's my sister in law. And in this image she was 25. And but a lot of people are pushed closer to 3035 with the rationale that yes, she's a CEO with three kids for kids in 11A. I gave you the same question except I told I told you she was a college student from. Last quarter, which shifted the distribution in the other direction. And so the idea is you have this uncertainty. I flash the image really quickly. And it's really only works when you have this wider blue distribution, right? When you have uncertainty in the data, in a bottom-up information, I told you that she's a CEO with four kids. So you have this prior expectation that she's going to be older. And then you combine those two pieces of information to give you your final perception or judgment about or guess how old she is, right? So that's the idea of unconscious inferences are Bayesian inference and what those kind of terms all mean. And a critical thing here is that if I just showed you this image and let you stare at it for an hour, then you, this blue distribution wouldn't be as wide, it wouldn't be as noisy. And then you would rely less on the pink distribution to influence your judgment. And so how much you rely on unconscious inferences really going to depend on how uncertain the data is. Ok. Hey, turn this we should get into. Let's stop here. Rather than get halfway through another topic. And I will hang out and answer any questions that you have. And then next time we'll talk about the more specific models and theories that have been proposed to sort of explain more specific instances of pattern recognition. Recognizing words, recognizing letters, recognizing faces, things like that. I have a question regarding preferential learning shirt. I get preferential looking time. Yeah. Yes. So I guess the main point is that the babies are wanting to look at new stimuli. Yes. And you're definitely tapping into question complaints. A lot of I think a lot of cognitive scientists and psychologists is like, this is a pretty big imprints are making here. Is that where you're going to say, No, I'm just cause Okay. It feels much more measurable. A much better example for me was, I believe the example you out on the next slide where you showed the response time for like the different shapes. Maybe it's not the next slide that the opt, the shapes. So looking at novel stimuli, when the different shapes come up, they look for longer and it's like, oh, yeah, whoa, like what's that? And it makes sense to if you're familiar with doing, you know, X amount of tasks. And then all of a sudden this brand new thing appears. You're like. Yeah. But the idea, I guess, is the idea for the language one that it's unconscious because this feels like a very conscious thing. And then you applied to language where most of us are kind of just guessing. Like I was only kind of able to grasp the language because of go coup in there. And I knew that that came out of that 100% correspondence with that question about otherwise, I was just saying, yeah, yeah, it's a good it's a good idea. So two things. I think that the reason I walk through the experiment, unlike real time steps, is because the first time I read about this myself, I was like, I'm so confused about what they did. And so I actually want to like go through and show the students what they did because it was confusing to me when I just tried to explain it. And so the reason that we walked through the experiment was not actually for you to do the experiment because I think the results are dramatically different than in infants, right? So we, like we talked about, critical periods are learning language, right? So it might be those very explicit thing to us. We might be worse at it than infants because we're not in our sort of prime of language learning. And so I think that the experience we have doing this experiment might not reflect infants. It's hard to say what infants internal experience of it is, is it conscious? Is it implicit? Or they consciously saying, ooh, that's a new sound? Or is it more of just implicit sort of tendency? They have to like attend to things that on some level they know and novel. And another thing to point out is that if you look at the data here, write a novel versus familiar items. It's a, it's a tiny effect. I mean, there's only 23 participants. So to get a statistically significant effect for it with 23 participants, It's a reasonably big, there's only 16 items, but it's not overwhelming, right? Well, you'd have to do a T-test to like, I couldn't look at these numbers and know if that's significant or not. And so it's, it's statistically significant, but it's not like an overwhelming thing, like what we saw in class data. It does feel like you're guessing. But the class, at least based on self-report, was about chance. Rocha. Because your question kind of it's just it's just interesting. Okay. But I had a similar thoughts that you did about that, like what you said, I, I've had similar thoughts about the whole experiment also open. I know I still appreciate that the answer, because it cleared at least somethings don't really understand the lipid N80 and stuff. Yeah, I again, 23 babies twice. But this has been repeated in a lot of different sort of that. There's obviously some measure of truth to it. Whether, you know, whether we're actually on, on point for what it is or if there's variations or nish thing, yeah, we're on the right track and you have to also meet other things. There's artificial about this, right? Like they only heard the stimuli for two minutes. At the same time it was only three words. But at least gives some sort of glimmer into a potential mechanism that when you're bombarded by speech, most of your life, even if it's a small effect, eventually these patterns are going to start accumulating, okay, via parallel PID anyways. Well, thank you so much. Sure. See you on Wednesday. Any other quick question on participation? Is first in the discussion section, is that part of participation or is that just the syllabus or was it just refer? Yeah, discussion is totally optional. I encourage you to go and I think it's definitely useful, but it's not there's no points associated with it. Okay. Thank you very much, sir. Question? Sure. So Friday last time when you asked him about how old girlfriend days, I feel like also just because it makes the outside thing that Se Zheng, Then what I do definitely a 100%. So that's kinda why I said it was like a B1 brute force sort of way of demonstrating this. And if I were actually going to do this in an experiment, I would never. There's two directions you can go. I'm asking the question in such an obvious way that one, I might get demand characteristics where people know what I'm trying to get at and so they say older, or maybe the fact that I'm even saying this makes you think that I'm trying to get one response, you give the opposite response. And there's, there's a there's a lot more explicit judgment going on based on how I ask the question, I completely agree. I really just wanted to kind of clarify what these different terms mean. But if you actually wanted to make an argument for this unconscious inference, you'd need to make the first question a little bit more unconscious. So I think going back to demand characteristics with that fall, I'm high belief anyway. Yeah, it would be Yeah. Yeah. It would be a more complex it would be a more complex thing that we're modeling, right? Bang, just like right here I'm trying to demonstrate and it's kind of silly way like how visual working memory might work, what you are talking about and what's probably more accurate to the situation that people are actually doing. And this is more of like a theory of mind, sort of belief, attribution kind of task, a much higher level judgment decision-making task than a visual memory task for sure, alcohol. And you could use Bayesian inference to model it. It would just be not exactly the scenario that I'm the toy scenario. I'm kind of presenting that good question. Any other questions? Hi, professor. I was wondering if you have any tips or suggestions on how to study better diploids, steady better for the quiz. So the way that I would study for the quiz is I would have, if I were struggling with it, I don't think that this is necessarily necessary, but if you didn't do as well as you wanted on the first couple, I would have my notes really well organized and the lecture recordings really well organized. Some of that I know how to quickly go to the relevant part of the recording or to the relevant part in the textbook or the then your notes. So that you can kinda refresh your memory on a particular topic really quickly and easily within the time limit. That would be my personal strategy. The other thing is I try to write the quiz questions so that if you do like a quick slide search or a quick like book search, just having terms at your disposal isn't going to help you. You kinda need to really understand part of the material, the concept. And so the other thing I would do is just when you're in class and we're talking about a concept, just really ask questions and make sure it's really clear to you that maybe you could explain it to somebody else. Looking. And what what kind of questions did you feel like you struggled with the most? I think, like the course concepts where it kind of fluency. So the more concise and more conceptual questions. Yeah. Does anybody else have any questions? I'm gonna pull up your quizzes if no one else does. Let's continue. Are you free during my office hours on Wednesday? It's minute. What time? If it's at three o'clock on Wednesdays? Time is okay. Yeah. If you come, I don't wanna do it now just because the is actually part of the recording and I can't trim the record it easily because it takes like ten hours to process. If you come to my office hours on Wednesday, I can actually pull up your quizzes and we can talk about maybe what tripped you up. Okay? Sure. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, sure. Any other questions?