 Hey everyone, happy Friday. Just give it a couple more minutes. Before we get started. I'm kidding my video off today and I'm going to tell you why. It's because I recently about a half-hour ago, was walking down my stairs and I slipped and I fell on my butt. And I cry like a baby. I'm okay. I think I don't think anything's broken, but my faces very puffy and I don't particularly care to video myself with a cry face. So embarrassing. Again. So let's get started. We'll continue talking about implicit learning for a little while. There's one other topic. Nothing was interesting topic in the world that we're going to cover first and then we'll get on to stuff that I find a lot more interesting, which is attention. So we're gonna spend a few days talking about attention. But first, a couple of things I'm behind on emails. As I always m by Friday. They've accumulated past the point of me being able to respond to them in real time. So I've set a couple hours aside tonight to get to your emails. So hopefully you'll get a response for me tonight or tomorrow if you are waiting to hear back about something and anything else, any logistical questions, concerns? Oh, I have one on sure. For last week's that like the 22nd. Like they would do like the same time. Does that count as one like experiment or were those like two separate ones? It counts as two separate one. So there's a few weeks whether to do at the same time. I think it's like two or three weeks. I enqueue. Any other questions? We'll pay? Alright, so let's get started here. Because last time we talked about all these kind of different kind of a hodgepodge of different cognitive models that explain different types of object recognition. Kind of lumping them altogether here, even though they're very different. Theories. Wow, it is 3D so you see if I can move, the rate does not stove. It's getting worse. Is it raining like this where you guys are at? It was where I live. But yesterday we had this giant tree in our backyard and and then half of it broke off. So it was this really 20 really taught at stub and the other, like the top half of the tree that just broke off fell on this other citrus tree that we had in our backyard. And now we don't like, oh, you have are fruit trees anymore because they were kind of small. Crazy. Yeah, this is nuts. There's like superintend thunder now. Okay, so we'll press on. Alright, so we're going to talk about feature nets. Feature nets is basically models that have were originally proposed to explain how it is that we. One of the things they use are used to propose to explain is how we read. So, so let's take a second to answer this question. What's your intuition here? So your showered animal, what do you think soda is not due today? I don't believe. I think that stays open until like the Wednesday before the quarter is over. Alright, so most people saying the modal response being be 54% of people, and that actually is true here. I don't think that would be my intuition. So the word is recognized first, then the letters are identified. I think my intuition before reading about this research was that that it's happening subconsciously, but we're reading, you know, each individual letter and then putting it together like how you learn to read and sound words out and things like that. And so this is sort of the research that has demonstrated that we actually are. Reading or sort of interpreting that pull word together as an entire word and not letter by letter. And it's called The word superiority effect. And so what they do in these experiments is a typical experiment with something like this. You see the word fork. And then immediately after the word has presented, a mask appears over the word and you have to say, what was the letter in the fourth position? Was it an M or was it a k? And notice that m and k both would complete that work and be a real word fork or form. So which letter completes the word doesn't give you any information. And so this is the word condition. And then the letter condition looks like this, are just shown. The letter k, F0 and are removed from the stimulus, unmask appears. And then you have to say whether it was a K or an M. And I think the the intuition maybe originally was that, well, there's less information presented in the letter condition. And so your attention can be more focused on that one part of the scene. And so there's more attentional resources focused on that. And so people should be better in that letter condition where they just have to identify one piece of information. But as you were, 54% of your intuition was consistent with that is not actually what happens. Oh, and there's one condition which is that there's the same amount of information as the first condition fork only now it's not a word. So you're still seeing four letters, but it doesn't completely, it doesn't make it work. And so here is the results. So sorry. The letter position, no letter condition work because you see a k and then you have K. But obviously it's k If you can only see that happens. So the stimuli up really quickly. So just flashes. So basically in the letter condition, the K appears to conquer the word. And then there's a K on the top and on the bottom and you have to say which one it was. Hopefully me always easily lucky this apps for this week. Sorry. It is like this UPS for the yes. Yea. The flushing appearing things. Yes. I think so. I think that's that's heated this week. Were a little bit off alignment with this app. Looks like maybe we're catching backups, so that's good. I'm very long and frustrating AT trials. So non-thinking the attentional blink, your data on the attentional blink one looked very good by the way. Ok, so in the single letter condition, I think the some peoples and this will be people will be more correct because there's less information to process and therefore, the matching will be easier. But that's not what happens. So it's actually in the entire word condition. Bet. People more accurately identify the K. So this is the word superiority effect. And this same effect happens with non-words. So if the word is pronounceable and this is what they call well-formedness. How probable the letter string is in whatever language you're doing this task and in this case English. So you have the letter only condition, so you see an E mask appears and then you have to say whether it was an era t. Then you have the letter in a non-work ERD, but a pronounceable word. So claim, not English but pronounceable. This actually does boost your performance a little bit 5%, and then 80% of accuracy when it's an actual word in English. So these are just first we'll talk about, I'm just talking but these are sort of phenomenon that have been observed. And then we'll use these models called feature nets to explain, to explain these effects. Some other observations. That is that how frequent the word is in English will enhance the word superiority effect. So for example, the word cake is a more frequent word, then label. We encounter it more. And so when you're asked about the last letter of cake versus the last letter of legal, you'll get a higher weren't superiority effect for cake, the more frequent word, for example, will remain calm. Club, variable when all my charm and this is B. I'll get to that in a second with this next experiment actually. But for most people, it's just looking at numbers across the population of what's a more frequent word. And sure, you might have some people in the experiment that you do have, have encountered the word label for whatever reason more often. But that will average out in, you know, when you have a large and a participant's right. That makes sense. But to kind of get at your question, can you manipulate this? And the answer is yes. So in the second experiment here, you have a higher frequency where to work that's more frequent and English cake versus a word that's less frequent and English label. And you can manipulate how activated it is in the person's mind, not based on frequency that they've encountered it in their life, but frequency that they countered encountered it earlier that day in the experiments you could, for example, prime people. How do you prime people? Well, you could show them a bunch of images, and in those images is a bunch of pictures of cake. Or you could have them study a list of words. And in that list of words is the word cake or the word label. And so you can manipulate how recently activated about where it is. And now what happens is when that word is primed, when that word is activated, you get a In this word superiority effect. So you take a common word like cake, you prime it, you make it even more activated in people's minds. Now you're getting even higher percent recognition on His word superiority task. And it works even stronger for words that are low-frequency in English, the English language like later, write u prime, somebody with the word later. Now it's active in your mind. You can almost get to the same level of word superiority for that word as a word that's common in English. And so the point of all these is that all these experiments is to show that there's some activation, some stored information in our mind of these entire words. And that we use that top down information. We use that stored information to help interpret and fill in the blanks when we encounter new stimuli. So when we encounter k really briefly, we don't have a lot of other contexts are a lot of information to be able to match that k. But when we are shown the whole word fork, we're getting bits and pieces of that information that activates a representation that's more common in our mind. And so now we have other information to infer this Pe based on the activation of that word initially. Whereas something like a letter combination that's active in our mind. And so US, though cuz we like sort of a general empirical thongs. And people have these things called feature to explain these phenomenon. And so this is what initiation of a feature that there's much more complicated version of feature that I think the, the textbook cites a more recent version of this from like 2014, most kind of recent paper proposing one of these types of models to explain reading. But this is sort of a simplified for the networks. So here is that have feature Emmys, feature detectors are little detectors that sort of active, that are activated when you and fragments of a letter, the letter C, you might have these different feature detectors. A curve on the left, a curve on the top, a curve on the bottom, number. And l, you might have a feature detector of a horizontal line, a vertical, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Those are activated. Input is fed to this next level in the, in the network, the letter detect, detector level. And if you have enough activation of these different Kirby pieces than the C might be activated. If there's enough activation for from the C and the L level, then it might send a strong enough signal to the third level, which is the gram detectors. And bigram detectors are letter combinations of things. An English letter combinations in English, ok. In this case, an English speaker. And then all of these by grams that are all activated enough, it'll send activation to this stored representation of the word clock. So that's just to generally have a sent through the system. But that too sort of different terms that are relevant. One is the response threshold. And so the, the reason people like these types of models, these sort of feature nets, neural nets, things like that is they don't propose that this is actually how neurons are connected in the brain. But it's, so it's a model. But people, I think it's appealing to people because there, you could imagine, based on what we know about neurons, that this type of system is plausible on a neural level, okay? So you having one activation level like in a neuron if it surpasses that active fire, right? And so you can apply that analogy here. So if it reaches a certain state of energy, it within a detector, if that detector reaches its activation level, that's when it'll send a signal to the next level. If it doesn't reach that activation level, it won't send a signal. So is this like sort of like a simplified version of what like a neurologist would like propose like more beaten down paths of like neuron activity where CL rather than Cx is like may have a better or more beaten down path. It yes. I don't know about beaten down pat, but yeah, exactly. It's like something that doesn't go. Yeah, yeah. So the response threshold is, I think the terminology that that is analogous to what you're saying, which is that you've been beaten down path or activation level basically how likely is this to fire? And there's going to be some pathways that are more likely to send a signal than other pathways. Yeah, great question. And so this is, this is where the response threshold comes in. And this is the idea that all of these different detectors have an activation level. And so every response threshold to reach that level to fire. But some of them before there's any stimulus input are going to have a starting activation level. So it's going to take less stimulation, less information in the world, less data whenever you want to call it. To reach that activation level. Started to reach that response threshold to send a signal. If it has a high activation level, it just needs a little nudge to send that signal. If it has a really low activation level, it's going to need a lot of strong information to send that signal. So that makes sense. Any questions about activation level in response threshold? Although mum, futbol, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Why are these? Why? Painful? Snowballed. Hm, hm, hm, hm. So I'm starting complex thousand B1. I'm, well, there, there are different types of Saul's, but in the sense that they respond to slightly different stimuli. But, but this is, so, this is not necessarily how the neurons work. It's, it's, it's a type of model that's inspired by knowing how neurons work and is neurally plausible because of the response threshold activation level. But there's no direct evidence in the nervous system that this is how reading happens. It's just a Inspired by and neurally plausible for that it sense. So don't take, don't take this too literally as a, as a neural model. It's more of a cognitive model inspired by what we know about how neurons work. If that makes sense. Okay, so the point here is, let me just jump. We're spending too much time on this. I think this stuff is super boring. So I want to get through it and get some more interesting stuff since it's Friday. So basically how it works is you see the word corn. Let's say that it's just on a truck drove by. You see it really briefly. You don't look at it for a long time. Oh, you only happened to see a piece of it. You only happened to see this bottom curve, right? So that bottom curve is activated. That bottom curve could be an owe you a queue or an S, for example. Signals are sent to all those letter detectors. And then the signal is sent to SEO. Because we know that this first letter is a or, or what possible letter combinations now go with an OH, well, one is SEO, but there's all of these other company. It can be CU See Q, C, S. And the eye of the activation level is that the letter C, O. That bigram in the English language is more common. The most common say of these four bigrams. Therefore, it has a higher initial activation level. And so in those COC, UCS, CQ have the same response threshold. They're going to take the same action. And the same energy entered and they're going to need the same energy to fire. Seo is starting out with a higher energy level. And so even though this has sent an O and U a Q and a as all send signals, all of these bigrams get a signal, but one that's actually going to be to make it to the top. Bird is the CEO because that bigram just had a higher activation level already. And so the point of this is that this is sort of can explain why we're more likely to detect, say, CO R n, which is a word versus CQ, RN. Even though that bottom curve that we saw had the same top or bottom up information, the same data, based on just the data alone. It could have been seek URN. But based on bigrams tend to be activated. What are its more common in the English language? We interpret that same data in the context of other letters and are more likely to perceive the world as corn. So COs, more frequent combination has the highest activation level to start with and so it wins. Basically. Lets try this question. Relaunch this pull. Right-click any habit. 53% of people saying a, but 40% of people saying b. So the answer is a. Does anybody want to explain how they got to that answer? So the reason why we would see it as corn instead is because even though, where, even though the string is C QR and when we see that, when we see that bottom curve, based on, you know, how familiar words Are, we tend to think that's, you know, it's more likely that's an o is going to appear at the NICU. Because generally speaking, o appears a lot more in the words that we use in English. And then of course, that are especially, particularly, Yes, that is totally true, appeared more than q. And after c, It appears. Our forget bigram of CO appears a lot more than something like C Q. So we think it's corn, just paperbacks. How frequent those patterns appear? Perfect, yeah, create explanation. And so it's just basically like this example, right? So it happened to be an OH, here that we saw groups. But it could have been a, Q, C, the bottom curve, send the signal to the o and Q. But the brain doesn't. The brain only has that bottom curve information and the CEO is still a higher, a bigram has a higher activation. So even though it's actually UQ, if we only had that bottom curve as the information entered into the system, the bigram that wins is still going to be the one that initially was more activated. And so we'll still see corn and this can explain why, you know, if you saw a truck drive by, I think it's intuitive like you see a truck that drives by and CQL are on the site. It's like some, some like acronym or something and it just drives by briefly. You might interpret it as corn because that's just a more common word. And this is sort of a model to describe sort of how that might work, right? So that's feature nets. I don't love them. There's more advanced versions. Another famous instantiation is McClellan Rumelhart model from 1981. It doesn't require bigrams. And rather than just being a one directional where it's sending information just from those detectors up to the words. And there's sort of a feedback of information. And so for example, you see the word trip. Say you don't see the t. R, I, and p might send information to trip because that's a word, a common word that ends with RIP. That word being activated sends a signal back, activates the t earlier on in the process, also sends information to other words in the semantic network. So maybe a word that is, you know, related or rhymes with trip has the same RIP as the, the final three letters. And so there's different versions of these feature detectors and how we might identify words and how semantic information might be sort of Hobbes, the Tory connections in our mind. Okay. Alright, so in the last 20 minutes of class, well first, does anybody have any questions about the future and stuff? Alright, so now we're going to talk about, I think, a more interesting topic which is attention ends. What is attention? At some empirically attention? Can Reagan really think of it as a wide range of phenomenon in which there's an identical stimulus that's just processed in different ways based on how we're attending to it. So it's kinda circular. I remember being in a talk last year actually at a current faculty member who was interviewing for the position, studies attention. And she said, when asked, How do you define a tensions as somebody who studies attention as her career? She said, You can't really define attention. Everybody sort of has a different definition of it. And it kinda just depends on what phenomenon you happen to be talking about. We use this really broad term to describe whole host of different phenomenon. So there's not really a very specific scientific definition of attention. But I like William James quote this William James quote that I think, I think we know what attention is intuitively. And so his objective description of attention as everyone knows what attention is, it's the taking possession by the mind in clear and vivid form of one out of what seems several simultaneous possible objects or trains of thought. It implies withdrawal from some things in order to deal effectively with other things. Okay, so that's William James definition of attention. And as I said, scientifically, it's sort of a whole host of different types of phenomenon that I think subjectively, intuitively we know what it is. And so we're just kinda, kinda structure the way we go through different phenomena in attention by asking, What is attention, for? What purpose does it serve? So attention allows us to select relevant perceptual information and enhance certain relevant perceptual information. It allows us to perceive a coherent world. So will talk about feature binding. So, you know, you see a car driving down rates and the color, the shape, the motion, the spatial location, the concept of a car. All of these things are sort of activated in different, represented in different parts of the brain. How is all that information put together? And that's what feature binding is. We don't see the sort of disembodied features. We put it all together as one object moving through space. And it turns out, and we'll talk about Studies next time, that attention is critical for putting all that information together. So it allows us to perceive the coherent world, coherent objects. And it allows us to sustain behavior, right? Like continue to stay on task and continue doing one thing out of many myriad of possible options of things that we could be doing. And select appropriate next actions. So we'll talk about all of these different points in some detail. I really like doing this task in a live classroom. So I usually ask the class to talk about their favorite TV show and they're really happy to do this because it's like five minutes talking about a TV show rather than cognitive science. And then the room erupts into conversation. And then I ask the students, like, did you have a hard time paying attention to what you were talking about with your group, where you distracted by all of the din of noise in the rest of the room, right? And and people aren't right? So like think about the last time you were in a crowded room, a classroom or a party? Were you able to have a conversation with a small group of people or was the noise and the rest of the room debilitating lead destructing? Yeah. I don't remember the last time. It's been a long time since we've been at a party or in a classroom or something like that. So the idea is, you can do this. It's very easy for us to do. And this is one of the main functions of attention. To select relevant perceptual information that's important for us at the moment. To the exclusion of all of this other information. This is called the cocktail party effect. It was originally coined in 1953. And it's just the idea that we're able to selectively attend to a particular, particular audio input. And in order to attend to certain audio and put that we care about, we're filtering out a range of other stimuli. Related not the cocktail party effect. This is often confused, but related to the cocktail effect is this. So what happens? You're at a party and you're talking to somebody, you're really engaged in the conversation. You're only listening to that person. What happens when somebody near you says Rename? Do you notice or not? Yeah. You totally notice. And it's not just things like your name. It's also like, you know, there's particularly good gossip going around and you, your talking to somebody about like their master's thesis or whatever PhD students talk about. And then like you hear somebody in the corner like talking about the gossip that's happening and you're like trying to pretend you're interested in what this person is talking about, where you are really listening to the other conversation. Because some keywords caught your attention. So we have the ability to selectively has had in tune out other information. We seem to be able to filter out that information, but some things get through. And we'll talk about theories of this sort of filter like what? And this is a big question and attention researchers like what, at what point do we tune out the information? What information is going to capture our attention? If we have a filter, if I'm talking to you at a party and I am filtering out other information in order to attend to what you're saying. Some things get through that filter, our name, relevant gossip, whatever happens to be. And so what is the nature of that filter? At what level is it filtered? Is that information reaching our conscious awareness at some level, but we're just not paying attention to it. How does that filter work? And so that's a big question, and we'll talk more about that. So 1953, the first sort of just demonstration was we can do this. We can focus on one thing and ignore other things successfully. And so called colin Cherry, 1953 to this develop is dichotic listening paradigm. And so what did I dichotic listening paradigm looks like is, you have headphones on and you, are, you're told to attend to input, say in your left ear, and to ignore the input in your right ear. So there's the attended channel and there's the unattended channel. And then in order to make sure people were doing this. They ask them to shadow. So that was just repeat back whatever was happening in the attended channel. And so people can do this. This is like the one finding again, this is like early cognitive science research. So it's just like demonstrating these very basic phenomenon. We can effectively shattered, we can effectively tune out that information, the cocktail party effect. We can ignore this information that isn't relevant to us at the moment. But an interesting thing that came out of this is that not only can we effectively shadow and ignore the other information enough to effectively shadow. What also happens is that if you, you start off with like a voice talking in the unattended channel. But then as the person starts shadowing and repeating the attended channel, you switch the unattended channel to total gibberish to a language the person isn't familiar with, like check. And then you ask them what happened in the unattended to channeled in anything weird happen the vast majority of the time they have no knowledge that there was something weird going on in the unattended channel suggesting they're just totally blocking it out. Features that do matter. So if it's like a, and we'll talk more about this with, when we talk about the different filter models. If it's like a a distinct male voice that switches to a distinct female voice. Those sorts of like what are called like sort of low level features. Those things are no more readily than just a language change or something like that. Okay? So this is, these are examples of selective attention. Directing awareness to relevant stimuli while ignoring irrelevant stimuli. So this is sort of where the term, you know, pay attention comes from is this idea that there's capacity limitations. We have to selectively attend to some things because we just don't have the processing power to successfully attend to everything. So envision, for example, the amount of information coming down the optic nerve is estimated to be in the range of ten to the eighth to ten to the nine bits per second. So this far exceeds what the brain is capable of fully processing and assimilating into conscious experience, right? So we only have so much attention to pay in order to have information be fully processed and assembled into conscious experience, we need to choose some things and exclude other things. Whoops. Alright, let me do a magic trick, virtual magic trick. So I'm gonna show you some cards. I want you to choose a card. And then the cards are going to disappear. It's gonna happen fast. Pick a card and remember what it is. Alright, everybody got the art. Think about your card. Hold your card in your mind. Visualize your card. Card disappear for you. Impressed. Crazy, right? We can read your mind, right? How did I do, how did I do this magic trick? Yes, I change them. All right, so this is the original set. And in my new cards, there's not one repeat, right? So whatever card you chose is no longer represented. And I just removed one of the number, right? And so this is how all of magic, or by all the magic tricks that I can think of this is anodic works. It's just playing on the limitations of selective attention, right? So like when I asked you to pick a card, you didn't memorize all of the different cards, you know, is going to happen really fast. There are similar. You picked one hell bat in your mind and saw that it disappeared, right? Because you didn't have the processing power to memorize all of the cards on the same, right? We'll skip this. But basically has couple of, couple of like coin tricks. Just demonstrating how it really is. Capitalizing. Magic is capitalizing on selective attention and the fact that we can't process everything, drawing our selective attention to irrelevant features when other relevant features to the magic trick are happening. So I thought this would be a fun extra credit assignment. So for 2.5% boost on your final exam, which is about a 0.5% of the class. Send me a video of yourself by next Friday doing a magic trick. And explain how selective attention contributes to the illusion. And you'd have to be a magician to do that. So I just attempt to the trick. It can be done totally poorly. You don't have to actually successfully execute the trick, try your best. But as long as you are able to say what the trick is supposed to do and how selective attention would make the trick work if you did it successfully. That's fine. So just attached to send me an email, attached to the video, to the email, and then just write a blurb in the email explaining but selective attention part. Are we allowed to do any check? Aren't we have to do the trick of the elite? Oh, no, no, any trick? Yeah. More creative, the better. And you can't use any video editing software or anything like that, but it has to be SBU doing the manipulation. Is it pause the books. They like to do that. What do I siblings. And then that's recorded? Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. He also submitted for cognition and vile. Say that again. Can be also submitted for the cognition and that'd be a great cognition in the wild thing. Alright, so selective attention is surprisingly selective. So these are a few different phenomena that really I think demonstrate how. Kind of blind we are and the board blindness isn't in a couple of these change blindness, inattentional blindness, blind we are to things that were not actively attending too. So we're going to talk about these phenomenon, change blindness, very similar phenomena in attentional and then attentional blink. So change blindness in inattentional blindness are phenomena in spatial attention. So spatial attention is location of objects in physical space. And then we'll talk about the attentional blink, which is a more of a temporal attentional phenomenon. Alright, so you're about to see two images, switch, switching back and forth in rapid succession. So raise your hand. So over years was to stare at the center of the screen. And you can look at that. You can attend to the rest of the screen, but fixate on the center of the screen. And this is what's called another key term, covert attention. So covert attention is when you're not actually oriented towards or looking at with your eyes something that visual scene, but you're paying attention to it. So you can do this auditorially. So an example of covert attention auditorily, right? Is that like I'm at that party talking to the PhD student about his boring dissertation. And really I'm covertly attending to the gossip that's happening across the room, right? Or something like that. You are at a party and like the person that you have a crush on comes in and you're looking at your friend, but you're actually watching this person in your attention even though your eyes aren't directed at best person, right? Yeah, so eavesdropping, sure. Visual eavesdropping, That's a good way to put it. Visually eavesdrop. So look at the center of the screen and linearize, attend the whole scene and then something that seems gonna change and raise your hand. When I did a little like hand Razi icon. When you see the change, I'll open up the participants views. I can see your hands. Okay. Okay, great. I realized that when everybody raised their hand, my entire screen is covered by pans or hand radios. I should probably fix that. So for those of you who didn't see it, if you add the benefit of what we call focused attention. So this is where you actually know where to attend. So you're going to attend to the pants on the left. Still focus on the center, but look at the pants on the covertly attended the pants on the left. So that's what's changing. And so the idea here is that when you add focused attention, even though your eyes hadn't move at all, just knowing where to look, where to shine your spotlight of attention makes the change pop out. That was an easy one. Let's try this one. Okay, so now focus on the railing in the back. Focused attention helps bring and here awareness or how about this one? Since harder? The tree branch on the left? Like this one so hard, it's almost cheating. If you look at the top left quadrant of the screen, part of the tree branch disappears. All right, a couple more because I think these are fun. Alright, blue object back into larger boat. And now this one, which I wasted probably 45 minutes today, trying to notice a change here. I just wouldn't look I wouldn't look it up. Listen as hard. Alright. Bushes in the back left. This one took me a lot longer than the tree branch. So that's change blindness. Change blindness is the inability to detect changes in the scene they are looking at directly. And the idea is that even if information is perceptually available, you're looking at the whole senior attending to the whole scene, all that. Visual information is available to you. But you need attention, you need that focused attention to bring it into awareness. And that could just be like you're scanning the scene covertly. Eventually you land on the selected the area of the spatial scene that the changes happening in. And then once you know where to look, in most cases it's really easy to detect. So we won't watch the Super awkward video until next time. So yeah, stick around and ask questions if you have any and otherwise have a good weekend. See you on Monday. We'll keep talking about attention. Hi professor. I was wondering for selective or a covert attention, we're supposed to focus on the centered regardless of other B. We're told up where the difference was or not. Yeah, and then it shouldn't really have much of an effect, right? So if you're staring at the center and sort of attending to the whole scene, sort of trying to attend to the whole scene. When you're told where to covert we attend, even if you don't move your eyes to that location, chain should still be apparent once you kind of know where to covertly attend. Was that your experience? Not really. I could see the difference until you sort of looked at it. I mean, it, it, it also will depend on things like your distance from the screen and things like that, right? And wearing your like how close to fixation it's falling and stuff like that. Right. And how subtle the changes to rate? Yeah. I mean, once I sketch it and then looked at the centers than I could see it. But it just seems especially the branch and each one of those ones are really rough. Especially like Yeah, you're looking at it in you're kinda periphery and like there's, I think this is difficult for me is like there's, there's something called ensemble coding, which is this tendency for us to sort of like average over similar features in the visual scene. So like leaves on a tree or grass in a field or things like that. And the further it isn't our periphery, the more ensemble representation we're going to have. So you can imagine that this ensemble representation of the bushes or the leaves or something like that. And so you're not noticing that change when it's in your periphery. Xi. Picking. Yay. Okay. Professor, on this one, on the poll questions, like the first one is not going to affect my Perkins knows, oh, you got one answer in today. You should be fine. That's basically were because of all the noise in this system were basically airing on if like, if you clicked in to something, then you'll get credit for good. Thank you. You're welcome. Professor. So with covert attention, does it have to You cut out? I heard with covert attention. Did I Lego wait, what yeah. I came. I couldn't hear. Okay. So my question was, is covert attention like like the crush example you gave to your eyes have to be focused in the center or is it just the concept that your eyes are focused somewhere and your attention is somewhere else. Yeah, it's just the it's just the idea that you can attend to something visually that you're not looking at directly. So yeah, attending without moving your eyes. Okay. Because surely attending a rise. And then my second question was or I mean or like that or like you could be moving your eyes like Sam talking to somebody at a party. I'm like doing my eyes around the room. But like really I'm paying attention to somebody right corners. And so the idea that your attention and your I move, I focus are not the same thing. You can attend to something that you don't look at directly? Well, originally attending something that you can't look at directly, or just attending something attention wise with like your ears because there's a difference between looking at something out of the corner of your eye and like visually attending someone you're talking to. Or like, like, have a really, really bad habit of not making eye contact with people like Taha. So always attentionally attending someone without looking at them? Well, yeah. Is that what we're talking about? Are we talking about just visual Attendance? Yeah. Yeah. So like you can just imagine like like look at the computer screen but like, like a ten something in your room. That's like eat that's in your visual scene. But like not like your magnify it in your mind sort of. Okay. Gotcha. Yeah. It's a little bit of a mix. Yeah. Right now I'm attending to the chair in the corner, but I haven't moved my eyes at all. Okay. And then another quick question. So I didn't realize there to zaps last week and I did one of them but not the other. And then go ahead and do an ounce. Okay. Oh, no. Email Sean and just let them know for sure. Thank you. You're welcome. Professor. I joined the class or belay, and I think by the time the pull where it's gone. I'm sorry if I can make up to live participation. Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Here. Let's just do this. Here. Just click in to the Polaroid. Thinks you're welcome. Any other questions? Alright. See you guys on Monday.