 Hey everyone, welcome back. I am going to give it maybe 30 more seconds for people to continue to trickle in. For now. I'm happy to answer any administrative questions. Looking at the chat now. Yes. So participation going to start counting next week. So we're still working on issues. Make sure you're signed into your UCSD zoom account so that it's your emails recorded so we can give you participation points for your poll response. And then the same thing with padlet. So in order for you to get credit for the cognition in the wild, assignment will need your email address. You have to create an account and post while logged into that account so that we can get your information. Find a fitness apps before the deadline. Yeah. We're going to talk about it the week after you guys do it. So it's nice if it's fresh in your mind. But pointwise, we're only going to as long as you do it by the deadline, that's fine. The first pilot was not for credit, so the first Padlet luckily wasn't for credit and I really just did that. I never used it before for an assignment. And so I wanted to kind of see how things are being recorded. And I learn that, oh, you need to be signed in to get your email in the CSV file. It's not just going to ask you for that, so just sort of a test. Okay. So what I've ask the TAs to do just because the chat can get a little bit out of control. And we can be discussing things like Godzilla movies, which is fine. Like I want this to be fun and casual. I don't want it to be super serious all the time. But what I've asked the TAs to do is to just monitor the chat, bring important questions to my attention if I need to answer them now. Otherwise, they're going to be trying to throw the content questions are important logistical questions in a document and then posting that document to Piazza after class, just in case you ask a question and then a bunch of stuff happened, then you don't see the TA's response. We're going to try that today and see how it works. Okay. Alright, so what a few more logistical thing. So my office hours are going to be today from three to four or maybe a few minutes after four. I have to leave by like 415 as a hard deadline to pick up my kid from daycare on Wednesdays. If you have issues with zaps, come to my office hours today and I can help you try to figure them out. And here's again a link to the zaps labs. You have to purchase it and then use this code to add yourself to the class. We can figure it out in office hours if you're having trouble with that. And then here's a list of the TA's office hours. If you want to go to their office hours instead of mine. Discussion sections are starting next week, but we will have office hours starting today. And then you need to decide by Friday about which participation option you want. So there's the three different choices. Synchronous, meaning you're going to come to class and respond to poll question than you can miss up to five and still get full credit. Asynchronous, which is you can still come to class. You can still participate in the polls. But for you to get credit, you're going to have to respond to the quiz on canvas and you can't miss any. So that's where your credit is going to come from. If you anticipate missing far more than five classes, that's the best option for you. And then opting out, just redistributing that proportion of your grade to the quizzes and the final exam. Again, I don't necessarily recommend this option for everyone. There's students that this works fine for their students that this is a disaster for, and they are desperate to have it changed back at the end of the quarter. And we can't make any changes unless there's a dramatic life circumstance. You twit such time zones or something like that. We're not going to make any changes after Friday. And then asynchronous participation will begin next because participation credit doesn't start till next week. Okay? So last time we just kinda wanted to put this clause and context. What the cognitive science major is can be kind of, especially in our department, can be a little confusing. Everybody's specializations are very different. Sometimes it's hard to see how it all fits together as sort of part of this coherent field. And so this series of classes I think of as kind of as the core of cognitive science and kinda where it came from. Cognitive psychology. And you know, 100 when a being, you didn't have to take that class, to take this class. But that's sort of the core foundational principles of how we perceive the world, how we represent visual images, auditory information, auditory processing, visual processing sort of how information is getting into the system. More low, lower level sort of representations. And then this class is sort of building upon that more complex behaviors. How we learn things, how we store information, our attentional processes, reasoning and decision-making. And then building to even more complex behaviors like language in one ONC. And so in this definition of cognitive psychology is the scientific study of mind and mental function. And as I told you on Monday, I Nivea a degree in experimental psychology, PhD in experimental psychology, master's degree in experimental, All these degrees, experimental psychology. I've studied this for over a decade. And I still, you know, kind of struggle with like how do we define the term, what, you know, what is the mind? That's a very kind of abstract idea. Um, some people might say the mind is what the brain does, but it's kind of a harder, more abstract thing to kind of think about. It's maybe easier to think about. It is just like how we use this term and language. He was able to call to mind when he was doing that day. If you put your mind to it, you can solve the problem. I haven't made up my mind yet. Ease of sound, mind and body. He has a brilliant mind. So it's pretty abstract concept. Our discussion is going to focus on more abstract ideas in general than say, compared to like a neuro class where you're talking about more sort of physical substrates. For physical concrete relationships between things. Cognitive psychology tends to be more abstract. In this class, you can think of sort of the mind this way. It creates and controls mental functions such as our perception, our attention, memory, language, and creates representations of the world around us. Or the mind is what the brain does. Okay? So here's a question that I want you to think about. Why, you know, why have this cloth? Why not just have a cognitive neuroscience class or neuroscience class? Why not study the mind that way? Won't, if we learn everything there is to know about the brain through neuroscience, what we just eventually have all the answers about mental processes and human behavior. So the question is, if we could record every single action potential from every single neuron, would we understand the brain? And in turn, they might think about battle, open the pole and just kinda silly. All right, so 97% of people responded. Most people saying no. So anybody care to make an argument for yes or no? Hello? In the shortest way I can put it, I would say no because the mind is embodied, embedded in situated. Meaning it's yes, the brain is involved. Yes, all the systems connected to the brain are involved in the mind. But so are the societal context as well as like all the things around us, like our environments and our artifacts. Absolutely sort of distribute this idea of distributed cognition. It's not, we're not just brains in a vat. Absolutely. Other ideas. I thought that maybe not just recording, but anyway, simulating the brain like every single aspect of it. And ideally the environment as well would actually behave because this is this Yana against Chabris. Yeah, so I thought recording itself. I don't think just recording taking a snapshot is enough at all, but I'm simulating, I think, I think whoopee, Sure. So if you could build a machine with all of these different connections and then replicate what the mind does, the news, you'd be satisfy that? I think so because I think you would respond to the environment in the same way a human would create this machine that does all these behaviors that a human does. Ideally in the same exact way that a human does. Not just some Blake imitation with the same sort of, not just the same output, but under understanding the same like the algorithms involved and sort of connections at these lower levels that's producing as output. Yes. And you could you could simulate what the embodied cognition and why other things too. Sure, sure, sure. Yeah. Yeah. Sort of matrix I like. Okay. So the reason I'm asking this question is one, I think that a lot of students are very interested in earth science. I'm not a neuroscientist. And so I kind of want to sometimes make an argument for why these other approaches to studying human behavior really important. I'm not the only one to make this argument. Much more brilliant minds have made this argument, specifically David Marr. So David Marr is, here's a neuroscientist. I'm a physiologist, really important player in the field of cognitive science and sensation perception and in psychology. I'm a really big player in field like Computational Neuroscience. And he was a neuroscientist. But he sort of gave pushback on this idea that we only should study the biological process that and the neuroscience and the out is going to lead us, that sort of reductionist approach is going to lead us to some higher-level understanding the mind. And so what Marr said, it was the trying to understand, he said perception, but in general, trying to understand the mind by studying only neurons is like trying to understand bird flight by studying only feathers. It just cannot be done. And so his point was that if you really want to understand, you can understand how birds wings are put together and all in the physical structure of a bird. But if you don't understand what the bird's wings are trying to accomplish. If you don't understand the principles of aerodynamics, that system isn't going to make sense. And so his point was that we need this behavior. Really want to understand human cognition and human behavior. We need to study it from all of these different levels in that in a department like cognitive science, that might seem more obvious to you, but at some point this wasn't an obvious observation. And so when he made it and so he proposed, you've probably heard about these before. It it kind of fluctuates. Give me actually, I want to ask, you know, I would ask him who will give me a thumbs up if you've heard or been exposed to this idea of Mars, levels, it fluctuate every quarter depending on sort of who's teaching recent classes, whether Mars levels is covered in a lot of detail or not. So a lot of no's. So let's just talk about this briefly. So the idea of Mars levels is that in order to understand a system, a complex system like the human brain and mind, we need to approach it from different sort of perspectives. And more proposed sort of three levels of what he called analysis. Don't take this too literally. You know, sometimes I get frustrated trying to fit like one, or at least when I was in graduate school trying to understand Mars levels more in-depth, I'd try to like, what level does this experiment fit into? So don't get too caught up in the details, but just a general idea. There's a computational theory level, the computational level. And that's the question of what is it, what problem is the system trying to solve? So this is the highest level, most abstract level of analysis. So for example, if we're dealing with a Rubik's cube, the computational level, the problem the system is trying to solve is getting to a state where all of the different sides of this cube are the same color. That's where the system, the goal of the system. Mar uses this cash register. Analogy. And so the computational level of a CashRegister Is the goal is to sort of come up with this total. At the grocery store when you're buying products, you know, we want to come up with one someone total of how many dollars you're supposed to handover at the end. The representation or algorithmic level. We're going to skip for a second. Well, just jump to the first third, I think are the easiest to understand. Level three is called the hardware implementation level. And this is more like Neuroscience. He sort of stuff. What is the biological substrate? What's the physical steps substrate? What's the, you know, the hardware that's accomplishing this goal? What physical substrate is? Are these steps implemented and then connecting these two levels, level one and level three is what's called the representational or the algorithmic level. And that's specifically what steps, what algorithm is being used. So in the case of the Rubik's cube, there's different algorithms. How many people can do a Rubik's Cube? Give me a thumbs up if you can actually do anaerobic skew. 12345, six, pretty, pretty, pretty impressive. Ten. And you probably, maybe there's one popular method. I don't know, I don't know how to ask Albert excuse. But there's different algorithms that you can use, right, to, to accomplish that same goal. And so that would be the representational level, what steps you're actually taking. And then finally, we think about the Rubik's cube. Is this sort of like a physical thing? We perform operations on, but you could actually have it represented in a different way. It can be digital. And they do have these digital representations of these Rubik's cubes or whatever. And so in the cash register, this would be analogous to is it isn't mechanical. Cashregister is made out of wire and plastic or that made out of metal. And then the representational or algorithmic level would be sort of what mathematical operations are actually happening to add those numbers up, is each individual number being counted 123. There's, you could, when you teach kids arithmetic, there's all these different methods you can teach a kid to like add things together. What actual algorithm is that using? So that's Mars levels. And the point of this is just that in order to understand an intelligent system fully, we need to approach it from all these different levels, not just one of these levels. That's one of the points. And the other point is that really in this class and cognitive psychology, it's these two levels of analysis that we're mainly going to be focused on and we're not really going to be talking about much about the implementation level, the neuroscience level. Or again, once again neuroscience, computational neuroscience. But like the physical implementation and anything else. Okay, so that's Mars levels above this touching back onto that question that I asked about, if you could record from every single neuron and every connection and every relationship, would you be able to understand what the mind is doing? And this was a really interesting paper. There's i Atlantic article I posted. It's optional reading on Canvas. That kinda tried to do this. So basically the premise was, well, we don't know how the brain, we don't know a lot about the brain and its connections, but we do know a lot about the system involved in playing donkey Kong, right? So there's, this game system was old-fashioned video game. This microprocessor that can play Donkey Kong and all these other sort of similar types of simple games. There's 3 thousand transistors in this microprocessor, compared to 86 billion neurons in the human brain. As a case study, a simple case study. Can we take this simple microprocessor that we understand now? I don't understand, but some people understand. And basically map all of the different connections and use that too. I understand the big picture of what this microprocessor is trying to accomplish. And so they use techniques like sort of, you know, try to map out the system using like lesion studies where they would break certain connections and see what happened. Um, and basically the takeaway is that it basically failed. They really were only through this. So what would be a strict neuroscience point of view? Were only able to come up with very limited, superficial explanation for what the system is doing without asking these higher level, sort of computational level questions. So check out that paper. There's the Atlantic right up and then also the actual research paper, if you're interested, posted. You can get that reference from the Atlantic article online. Ok. So today we're just going to kind of talk about, you know, how did we get to where we are today? Perspectives we have about studying the mind. So I, the first meeting you probably know of Cognitive Science Society was held here at UCSD in 1971. I remember my first day of work in the department. My office used to be a guess. It still is, but it's empty now. Would overlook the courtyard. And every day that every link, our, there'd be tours where they'd like. This is the cognitive science building. This was the first department of cognitive science and existence. I felt this like really strong sense of pride for being associated with UCSD cognitive science department. And so the founders of this department, he so live them that are still, many of them that are still here. The former chair of the department up to two years ago, Marduk, who does, who stole an active researcher in the Department was one of the founding members, other faculty also. So it's a really cool place to be. So how did we get to this idea of cognitive psychology, cognitive science. When as early as the early 18 hundreds were truly in the big scheme of things. It's not that long ago. People believed that mental events are hidden. We cannot study them scientifically. And now we're, all of us are in this enterprise of this is what we do is we try to study mental events, right? So in the 18 hundreds, the early 19 hundreds, there was this pushback from these early philosophical ideas that you know, that the mind is hidden. There's no way to access it. It's not something that is in the domain of science. And then there was these early researchers, which we'll talk a bit about in a second, called introspection lists. Who said yes, we can study mental events by sort of being highly trained, looking inward and evaluating our own cognition. From the introspection as there was pushback from that perspective, which is this movement called behavioralism. Which was that, no, that's a bad idea. Introspection doesn't work. It's subjective. It's not scientific. You can only study behavior. And then in response to strict behaviorism, there was, what we know is the cognitive revolution, which was a response to that idea that we can only study stimulus response behavior, relationships and behaviors. So that's sort of the big picture overview and so will today we'll kinda talk about some of the key ideas and milestones in this history. Okay? So early on, like the late 18 hundreds, there was some the studies that would be valued by and have similar approaches to what maybe a modern cognitive psychologists, cognitive scientists would do today. So Ebbinghaus was really revolutionary in his approaches. He was the first person to sort of try to quantify, measure in an objective way of human behavior. So he was interested in memory and we'll talk more about him when we talk about memory. But what he did is really simple. And we would have problems with some of his experimental designs today. But because he did it all on himself and things like that. But here's this interested in what's the time course of forgetting. And so he used himself as a research subject. And he memorized these lists of nonsense syllables, dx, j, things that were not pronounceable. And he would memorize it to this perfect state where you have them all memorized. And then he would wait a little while and try to recall the list again. And he would then try to see how long it took him to get to another, a new state of perfection where he could memorize the list and report it completely accurately. And how much quicker he could memorize the list to perfection he called savings. And so after, you know, in different periods of time, his savings has percent, savings decreased. And so he's quantified this. He called these forgetting curves and learning curves. And we'll talk all about all this more in detail when we talk about memory. But the point is the Hughes really the first one to sort of take this objective measure, but boy, behavior quantify it. Pretty graphs of forgetting and things like that. And this was an uncommon approach at the time. So a more common approach is something like this. So try to memorize this number. Ok, so what steps or operations did you perform to accomplish that? Any ideas? Somebody saying grouping, recognizing, phone number, if I made businesses associated with UCSD rehearsal, repetition, yeah. All of these sort of ideas. And so this, what I had just asked you to do is essentially an introspective approach to studying cognition. You are reflecting upon your own mental processes to sort of come up with. This is how I went about doing this. And we'll talk about the problems with that in a second. So this is called introspection and this is really the first attempts to start to talk about, you know, we can't study the mind. We can look into the mind and study it scientifically. And so the Wilhelm Wundt was a proponent of introspection. As him, he is like sort of the creator of and he had all these students take nurse if another famous psychologist, early psychologist that use these methods and this was really like the first psychology lab. A bunch of students came to the United States and founded psychology, as we know in the United States. And they used what's called analytical introspection. And so they were, his students were really meticulously trained on paying attention to their conscious experience. I'm not trying to jump to any interpretations or conclusions, just kind of recording what they were experiencing. And if this sounds kind of nuts right now, given the state of the science and sort of what we expect out of cognitive science today. But there was big contribution. So one of the big contributions are that big contribution was that it was really one of the first attempts to say we can't study the mind. We can study the mind and behavior in a controlled environment, which the people just didn't do before. It kind of spurred and created all of these departments of psychology. So what are some problems with this method? Or are there problems with has met the Basie. Yeah, so you guys are hitting on all of them. So thanks. It's subjective. There's bias. So subjective might mean being hard to compare across people. So how do I, if I tell you that my headaches are worse than your headaches, right, how do we ever verify who's correct? Where, where do we get the objective ground truth. There's not really any way to do that through this method. Other people are saying, hey, there's, we only have access to our conscious processes. Yeah, that's a really big important observation. So these are the two that I wrote. So if I ask you, what's your middle name? It pops into your mind. How did how did you find it? How did you do that search? You know, there's no way for you to have conscious access to that process because it's an unconscious event, right? And so there's just, it's bias, it's objective. It's not empirically verifiable. And there's a ton of stuff that the mind is doing that we don't have conscious access to. And so started some great stuff. General principle of studying the mind. Burned this pushback. Behavioralism. John Watson, who was a PhD student studying an introspection, I said at the beginning, and he just was like really irritated with all of these methods. The data was really noisy there, it was really inconsistent. And so he noted all of these problems about introspection and basically was the first to kinda, kinda created the scale, the behavioralism he advocated for abandoning the study of the mind as we know it. So he wrote psychology as the behavioral C, it is a purely objective experimental branch of natural science. Its theoretical goal is the prediction and control of behavior. Introspection forms no essential part of its method, nor is the scientific value of its data dependent upon the readiness with which they were, lend themselves to interpretation. And he went on to basically say that we should not we shouldn't look at anything. We can't look at anything about that. We can't talk about human cognition or the mind. We could only study. Stimulus response relations, ships not mental processes because they're not observable. It's a black box. We don't have access to it. Things that we can observe and record and be objective about our, the behavior that someone produces and the stimulus that led to that behavioral response. Those are things that are quantifiable and reproducible. But we can't talk about inside the black box of the mind. And we should limit our vocabulary to talking about stimulus and response relationships. And we shouldn't use vague intermediate terms like thoughts, concepts, feelings. All of that is off limits to science. Okay? That's what we'll talk about, both of these things in more detail probably like a week. We'll talk about classical conditioning. And classical conditioning is just. The classic example is Pavlov's dog. You ring a bell before you give a dog food. Eventually, the dog additionally salivates to the food. But eventually it makes this, it makes the connection between the belle predicted in the food and it starts to just salivate to a bell on its own. That's classical conditioning. Operant conditioning, which has more to do with contingent behaviors, namely punishment and reinforcement. So if, if something is punishing, it reduces the that response. It reduces how often that behavior occurs. Something is rewarding, it's something that increases the probability that, that behavior will occur. The first sort of demonstration of operant conditioning was Thorndike's puzzle box. And so what he did was he put cats in a box and he put a dead fish on the outside of the box. And then he just recorded all of the different animals behaviors. And so this first little diagram is how often it's scratches the bars, it pushes it up, assuming a digs up the floor, the big arrow means it's doing the scratch at the bars the most. But after many trials, it just ends up doing the lever pressing behavior because bats behaviour that ended up getting a reward when it presses the lever, the door opened and it gets the fish. And thorn dikes idea. And his idea of operant conditioning is that it's, we can only really talk about the cat got rewarded for pressing the lever. Not that the cat had a mental representation that the levers what opens the door and that's why it learn to press the letter. It's just the one that motion happened. The door open, he got the reward. And Thorndike notice superstitious behavior as, and use that as sort of evidence for seeing this stimulus response relationship. Because the cat would adapt very superstitious behaviors, things like turning three times before pressing the letter. If that's the thing, that if that's what a hater that initially was rewarded, right? So that's the sort of early operant conditioning. And so that's sort of the feel, the behavioralism. And it's, it's, we're going to talk for a second about why this is not, this is not where we should stop in studying the mind and human behavior. But I do want to say that behavioralism is super robust, has makes very clear predictions. It's still very important field of behavioral science. But at this time of behavioralism, It was kind of like the end all be all. This is the, you know, the only thing that we should be doing is talking about stimulus response relationships. In World War Two. B F Skinner was working with the government actually to create guided missiles. So they didn't have really great guided missiles at the time. Ands a project or con, or the pigeon product was using operant conditioning, basically training pigeons to peck, depending on certain. Visual input and getting rewarded. And so the pigeon would actually be able to sort of see where the target was and it's pecking behavior would move the tail fins. And so the idea was that these pigeons could basically be the pilots of these guided missiles. It was never actually used, but they were developed at the time Walden Two was published. Walden Two is a book that I think would horrify most people today. But the argument was that we could create this Utopian society based only on rewarding and punishing people. Parents should use this strict behavioralism on their children to create these perfect humans. And that's how society should be structured. So that's sort of behavioralism. And then the cognitive revolution was going back to this idea of, yes, we can study internal mental process as we don't have to be limited to stimulus response relationships. The cognitive revolution, and that's just this refers to this, this prior, this term. A million times. People have sort of different time periods. They consider the cognitive revolution different important events. But overall it's just the shift in Psychology from this behavioralist stimulus response relationship to this approach where the main thrust is to understand the operations of the mind. And so some key things that spurred the cognitive revolution. One, he's just something that's probably intuitive to all of us, which is just that behavior. Behavior often seems best explained by positing, by proposing rich internal states. So, oh, what, so last night, how those customers like, what does the word positing me, positing meet, and what do you mean by rich internal stake? So I'll positing just means I'm proposing, suggesting, believing, enrich internal state I think will become clear in a second. I'm into some kind of key thinkers were Tolman, Edward chance Tolman. And he has the coolest middle name. And Noam Chomsky. And we'll talk about their contributions. Another one is the advent of the digital computer. People being more familiar with this idea of a digital computer and flow diagrams and things like that. And starting to think about the mind in these turn, these information processing terms. And then just generally new methods and approaching methods and approaches to studying cognition. And we'll talk about those in the next, in the last ten minutes. Okay, so this is a really famous experiment in cognitive science. And one of the reasons it's so famous, because what is one of the key experiments that started shifting our thinking from his behavioralist pointed you to more of a point of view where we evoke this idea of mental representation of something that is within our purview of talking about. So what polo was a behavioralist. So he was, he considered himself a behavioralist who's studying navigation behavior in rats. And what do you would do is he would release the, the wrapped into this maze. And the rat would explore the maze and it would find food, which is a rewarding stimulus in his terms, in behavioral terms. So that's the, that's what he's doing. And so I asked this question here. So think about this anyways, even I just showed you the answer. So I'll let you read that and answer this poll question. Okay, good people didn't see the answer. Whether be knife. I'll wait til 90%. Okay? Alright, so most people saying being maybe because they saw the answer, maybe because it's just the correct answer. So anybody want to make a case for why why they chose BY other than seeing displayed on a difficult or do you want to go? If we go off this simple behavioral theory, when it's starting at a and it's being reward food by going right, it's going to assume that from whatever starting position it's going to go out. If it goes right, it'll find the food. So if it starts at C, the right endpoint is d. So it's going to think to go there. Yeah, because, because it why that was conditioned to believe that by turning right, you get food perfects regardless of where you start. Yes, you have this behaviour as operant conditioning is that you have is behavior. And then like the cat and the puzzle box, if it does the behavior, then it gets rewarded. It just does that behavior again, it doesn't have any higher level or more complicated cognition. Perfect. So the interesting thing about the study was that that's not what the animal did. So the animal, when placed that see, for example, didn't turn right. These are simple diagrams. The rat had ways of knowing that it was not placed at the waves of orienting itself to the environment. It turned left instead. And this suggested to Tolman, you propose this term of cognitive maps. So the idea was, oh, oops, submit controlling my screen. So even though the rat had previously been rewarded for turning right, that's not what it did. And the suggested there told me that I had a map of the environment, had a mental representation of the space. And it wasn't just using this symbol operate, this reward. It was representing the space, representing where the food was and navigating towards it. And that seems like a really simple idea to us today, but it was not a simple idea at the time. And it's what sort of one of the things that sort of shifted us into this, this domain where we could say, oh, we can make inferences about what might be going on. We can propose things reasonably within the domain of science like cognitive maps, given the evidence of experiments. This problem, I didn't even know you could do that, Matthew, I, it's interesting that that happened. No problem. And 45. What do I want to say about this? Oh, so, yeah, so another thing that not this book itself, but like noam Chomsky's response to this book, and I actually would like to talk more to, I don't I'm not an expert in language, so I'm curious what Sean has to say. He's like he's the THC studies language. But my understanding is that this book basically said that verbal behavior, language is an operationally conditioned response. So parents reinforce their children speaking behaviour. And that's how we learn language. And so may lack astonish as adorable video. But also just sort of demonstrates how language did all these really young children without any clear or sort of Golder reward. It's just sort of a behavior, a human behavior. I'm gonna, I realized I didn't optimize screening for sharing video. And this is not the most important video, but it's cute. So twins having with total incoherent conversation, no clear operant conditioning or explicit reward for that. It just seemed like a natural thing that humans do. And this is what Chomsky argued. He published a scathing review of this book and verbal behavior and it really caught the attention of a lot. Two psychologists at the time. Arguments like kids produce all sorts of speech that they'd never heard or been reinforced for. I braked it. Let's say I hate you, Mommy. Clearly, that's not a sentence that's ever been reinforced. The kids produced a sort of behaviour. And so Chomsky argued that language and other complex behaviors is a product of the way the mind is constructed. And his perspective about language and complex human behavior led psychologists to reconsider that idea. That this large amount of behavior can be explained by operant conditioning. And I think we'll just stop there. And we'll talk about just briefly about the contribution of the digital computer and new methods. Next time. And then next week we'll do It's not cognitive psychology per se, but it's a learning memory and attention class. So I will talk about operant and classical conditioning and a little bit more detail. Starting on Friday. I will hang around for the next ten minutes for questions and then I'm going to transition to my office hours. So if you have a quick question, feel free to stay here or do you have a longer question? Feel free to come to my office hours and otherwise see you guys on Friday that if you're going to turn out yeah. Quick question. Sure. Could you just explain the requirements for asynchronous participation will more to shore. So for asynchronous participation, you just have to, we're going to score it based on the quiz posted on Canvas. It's not a quiz, but it's just, it's a quiz. And you have to just complete those. It's for its credit, no credit. If you complete all the questions, you get full credit. And so you basically are in like three different streams. Either synchronous participation where you can miss five classes. You're going to be scored off respond knew the poles and class asynchronous participation where you can't miss any because you have this flexibility about when you do the responses, but you have to it so you have to answer them all, but you can do it offline. And then opting out of participation, which is redistributing those 15 points, 15% to exams and quizzes that answer questions about it. Thank you. Yeah, that's that's very picks. A professor F a quick question. Sure. So attendance started from nice Make or discrete. It starts next week, monday next to each other. All day. Thank your GSC bugs. Thank you. Sure. Thank you so much for opening up the link list, by the way. Oh, yeah, no problem. What now I'm getting e-mails from the second batch of waitlist. Mainly for either it's positive, but it's a little bit harder to have to say no, but yeah, I'm happy to have you here. You always contribute a lot to class or paying. Glad you're joining. Professor, I was wondering if you could go query like how we know about were signed into your account will run soon because I got an email that said I was. Yeah. So I change the setting to where it should require you to sign in to zoom the one think the ones that I can't set it to require you to sign into your UCSD zoom. And so some people were assigned him the other zooms. So you should be so I changed it to or you should just be required to. So you shouldn't be here unless you're Simon today. Now I just wanna make sure people are signing with their UCSD email address. But I will check as soon as those meetings over. I'm gonna again go through and check to make sure that everyone is here has an associated email address. And if you don't you again, we can go from there. Okay. Thank you. Unless anybody else here has an answer to that from the student. Student and I've never experienced that from the students. I don't know. I got the I got the email and I had to I it's because I didn't have Zoom opened already. So if you go to the link, because I go to the zoom LTI Pro through Canvas, and then you just click on the link. It, it tends to just open zoom without signing you. And so I have to open it beforehand and then I click on the link. Got it. Got it. Okay. Yeah, that's my understanding and to sign it and then click on the link, cuz it doesn't require you to sign him. Regarding what sections are going to be. Sections are going to be just mainly review some like questions. Sort of structured conversation about the class. They're not required, they're meant to kind of bolster your understanding and stuff we cover in class. Total kinda be like Why don't want a where we can go to any of them. You can go to any of them? Yeah. Like whatever is non lad sections. Okay. Sounds good. Thank you. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Thank you. I had a question about so I really like I'll I'll start working on them now. Yeah, you can. So I'm gonna save this and I shouldn't because the publisher, he's got mad at me in the past. Really what you could do. I'm gonna cut this out of the what I post online. You could do the trial of zaps. Tell me you've done them all. I can record your score. And then you could, you could see, you could do it all in the first week. I think that you could technically do that. And that would be fine for my end. Okay. And for the the discussion questions afterwards, are you expecting like a paragraph or just like a couple sentences? Just a couple of Hang on. I'm thinking of offenses. Yeah. Ideally you do the experiments. Book it. If you do them all at once, you're gonna forget which ones are which and then they're going to get confused and you won't be able to if you do what I just said, you could do an issues. I'm thinking about what that is, that you won't have access to them for studying. And there will be questions about zap somebody exam, the final exam and things like that. But if you're really opposed to sending 25 bucks, then you could do that. And he got it. Thank you. Professor, I had one quick question. I was wondering, what material do we need to know for this apps? What material you need to know? What do you mean by that? Like, what's hard to pre requirements to be able to finish this apps like I just showed you. You will be doing that as apps books forward. We cover it in class, so it's kinda self-contained. So you'll read a paragraph or a few pages about what the experiment is. Can you do the experiment and then answer some questions about it so it's self-contained, it mental activity that we do before we talk about a class. Gotcha. Thank you. Any other question? Alright. I'm going to hop over to my office hours. So you have a longer question. That is where, how it'll be. Thanks guys.