 Hey everyone. Happy Monday. We'll give it till 2012 to for people to Rollin. But I'm happy to take any logistical questions that you have now. Haley. Yes. Site. I just wanted to double check because I don't know if I was reading the syllabus wrong. I'm confusing it with another course right now, but mixture. Where do Sunday night or month are today before class? Which, which is it? That this quiz, this week's quiz. Quiz number three is, Do, It should be due. Monday is before class, but things got shifted. I so I think this one is du I'm looking right now and due date on the clashed at two PM to two PM today. Okay. It was it was it posted at 02:00 PM? Last or was it posted last Monday or last Tuesday. Do you remember if you if anybody thought the due date was Tuesday because we've kind of shifted things a little bit lately. Just send me an email behind on emails, but I'm planning on finally catching up today after my office hours. So send me an email if you thought it was Tuesday and I can give you extension on it. And then just for that week for quiz without be due on Sunday or Monday or do you know yet? So the idea is there due Monday. Ok. The idea is there due Monday before class time got mixed up with another class that yeah, there was a holiday and we shifted things will Tuesday and it kinda has stayed that way. So yeah, that's the Ideally going forward will be due Monday at 02:00 PM. Other questions? Okay. Let's get started then. So we're going to keep talking today about attention, which we started talking about on Friday. So we talked last time about this idea of selective attention. This idea that we can direct our awareness to relevant stimuli. And that comes at the cost of ignoring irrelevant stimuli. We can't process everything. And so we need to pay attention. We need to spend our attentional resources on some things at the neglect of other things. And so that's this idea of selective attention. You know how this is accomplished, when this is accomplished are all sort of open questions. And we'll talk about a lot of research in this area, phenomena in his area, and sort of models of selective attention today. So last time we talked about how selective attention is surprisingly selective. We have this sense of theoretical world that we are looking around or environment. And we are perceiving everything that's out there in this seamless fashion. That when we close our eyes, we have some sort of stored representation. It's very detailed about our physical environment. When a change happens in our environment will notice it. And these are all not, these things are all not true, right? So some of the demonstrations that selective attention is surprisingly selective is this idea of change blindness. Some demos of this are these images where some are more obvious than others. Something disappears while you're looking at the image. In this case the bush behind the statue. And it takes us a really long time to notice that. Or it takes a lot of us, a lot of time to notice that. So that's change blindness. And it's the idea that even if information is perceptually available to us, we need to attend to it to be aware of it. So it's not just that it's happening in our visual field that is enough for us to register a change in our environment. Attention has to be paid to that spatial location for us to notice a change. And so here's a sort of another demo of, of change blindness, not in a static image but in a video. So we'll watch a little video here. Try to ignore how awkward conversation is. These are clearly research assistants or not. And he says, at Pasadena High, I spent a long time since I've Sr. Yeah, it's great to see you, Andrea. So how did you get here? I took the subway for Middleton and it took only about half an hour. Really. I draw from aggression than it took 45 minutes hooray for public transportation. So why did you call me here for this mysterious meeting? I'm planning a surprise party for Jerome and I need your help to keep him away from the how that's great. I'll do anything you need. Good. I hey, surprise parties, but only when I'm the victim. Otherwise, they're great. Very good. Okay. Like paint this videos a painful for real. Okay. So there were nine in to intentional editing mistakes in this video. So did you notice any of them? If so, how many? Now I click it if you have it. All right, so the modal response is a. None of the editing mistakes were noticed. One person noticing 91 person or thing 78. But for the most part we miss a lot of them. So anybody want to shout out some of the editing mistakes that you noticed? Plates changing, scarf changing. Justin was too focused on the captivating story. I also, I think it is part of the phenomena is that the exchanges so awkward that it's distracting. Noticed that the one on the right, Sabrina is wearing a scarf. In a moment, we'll have a close-up and the scarf will be gone. Notice the scarf is gone and Andrea, the woman on the left, has her arm on the table. Now it's at her chin, scarf is back. Notice that the plates are red. Now they're white and Andrea's arm is back on the table. Now they're red and Sabrina's arm is off the table. Notice that the food is in front of Sabrina. Now it's in front of Andrea. The cups and the spoon have also switched places. And Sabrina's arm is on the table when it wasn't before. Arm on the table, I think goes a little bit cheating, but the rest of the stuff is pretty dramatic, I think. And of course, there's all kinds of famous examples of this in movies that we don't notice. Ocean's Eleven, he's cocktail shrimp and then it's a plate of food. And the next cut, a Latin. Obvious, what's happening here. Ferris Bueller, stay off, the sidewalk, disappears. Harry Potter. He goes to sleep and one shirt and wakes up in a cold sweat and a different shirt. There's all kinds of examples of this that we just fail to see, right? So this is change blindness. Inability to check, detect changes in a scene. Even if the information's for sexually available, we need to be attending the information to be aware of it. And Levins and Simons, who are really well-known researchers in this area. They coined the term inattentional blindness, I think. Or I don't know if they coined the term an intentional blindness, but they did the famous, famous gorilla study, which we'll talk about in a little while that highlighted inattentional blindness. They refer to it as the illusion of memory. So we think we perceive way more about our world than we actually do. And actually wrote a book called the illusion of memory, which is pretty interesting, kind of a pop psych book, if you're interested in that kind of stuff. Okay, so what's your intuition here? So do you think we're more likely to notice a stimuli that is unexpected in our environment, or a stimuli that's expected. So just linear responds to a or b here. We have almost a 50-50 split. A few more people saying A, we're more likely to notice an unexpected event than an unexpected event. And this is also my intuition also. But it's actually not the case. It's the opposite. Were more likely to notice expected things when an unexpected thing happens. Assuming that our attention is sufficient, we engaged were less likely to notice within something that's expected. So we'll show some examples of this. Today. We are going to play a game specifically designed to test or spatial awareness. Hey, the brain games Double Dutch. Now, what is jumping rope have to do with the brain? Well, Double Dutch requires off the chart spatial awareness. Today these kids are going to help us test yours. For this game. All you have to do is keep track of the number of times that either of the girls in green jumps. You'll count each time one of them lands a jump like this line. So 35, as you can see, these jumpers are pretty quick on their feet. So you're going to have to pay attention to keep up when the whistle blows. Ready go. So how many jumps did the green team make? Did you say 38? If so, who agreed with 40% of our test audience? Now, some of you may be on to us, but for those of you who aren't, did you happen to notice anything else going on during the Double Dutch? Maybe a giant chicken strolling right through the middle of the set and you're doing a funky chicken dance. Now, some of you may have missed that funky chicken, but many of you probably saw it. And that's okay because the chicken was just there to distract you to here's the real question. What color was the wall behind the Double Dutch game? If you forgot to count, you're not doing that to ask. Today we're yeah, so January chicken back mimicking this gorilla study, which we'll talk about in a second. Most people are seen as, which is why I'm not showing that as an example. But the real sort of catch here was this question of what color was the wall behind the Double Dutch game? I'll give you a little insight into writing multiple choice exams. If you give a slightly more detailed option as a choice, people are more likely to choose it than the other options. Which seems like what's happening here with the pinkish purple color. Again, there's a hit. It wasn't the same color at the end as it was when they started jumping. The back wall was changing color the entire time from bright blue to write grand. Nearly everyone misses. But why? It turns out there's far too much information coming in through the eyes at any given moment for the brain to fully process all. As a result, the brain has to act like a spotlight, focusing our attention on some parts of the scene but not others. Now, most of you were probably paying attention to the jumpers and some of you may have suspected that something strange was going to happen. And so you saw the chicken, but you probably weren't paying attention to the back wall. And what we don't pay attention to. You don't see. And hey, for those of you who manage to catch everything so far, did you notice that we also swapped the rope turners out halfway through. Gotcha. Alright, so kind of a silly video. The original video, which unfortunately most people have seen before, and it's really fun to show people for the first time. I could actually do that the first couple times I taught this class. Raise your hand if you've seen this video Just out of curiosity for future iterations of this class. Most people have seen the invisible gorilla experiment. I'm sorry to ruin it for you if you haven't. But basically what happens is you're asked to count how many times the black team passes the basketball, or sorry, the white team passes the basketball. So you're focused on the players in the white shirts. And then this gorilla walks through the scene, beats his chest in the middle, stays around for quite awhile and walks out. And like 95% of people don't notice it. So pretty striking effect. And so this is called inattentional blindness. And it's very related to change blindness. It's, it's this idea that people just fail to see what they're not expecting or attending to. Probably most classically shown or most popularly shown in the invisible gorilla experiment. The original demonstration of this was actually much less interesting or less flashy study at least, but kinda neat. So people were asked to stare at this dot in the center of the screen. And to pay covert attention too. The plus sign in the top right corner. And they had to indicate the task was to say if the horizontal bar or the vertical bar was longer than the other bar. So in this example, the horizontal bar is longer. It's not a sum, a plus sign with equally linked bars. And so since the line, the horizontal line is longer, in this instantiation, they would press a button to indicate yes, and so that was the task. But what happens is on the sixth trial, the fixation target disappear. So this is the fixation target. So this is what they're looking at. It's what's directly with their phobia eating on, even though they're covertly attending to the, the other stimulus, their eyes are fixated on this dot. It disappears, it changes shape. And when asked, people are not able, they do not notice this. They can't tell you what shape change too. And they say that nothing strange happened even though they're staring directly at it. If you warn them that something strange is going to happen, does affect completely goes away. So when it's unexpected and unexpected change, even though their phobia eating this image, they don't notice. So this is the original term, inattentional blindness. The gorilla study is sort of a more flashy version of demonstrating this effect. When it comes down to this idea of something that's unexpected in the scene. You just jump ahead. One slide here. Yeah, so a question that I often get is, what's the difference between change blindness and inattentional blindness? They seem really similar phenomenon. They are really similar phenomena. And I'm not going to ask you a question on a quiz or something to distinguish between these two phenomena. But if you really want to get sort of a split hairs about the difference, change blindness is failure to notice an obvious change in a scene. Inattentional. Blindness specifically relates to the idea that it's an unexpected change. But again, very similar, very overlapping phenomena. We could have a sort of argument about whether the task and the double dutch video was inattentional blindness or change blindness, right? The fact that we don't notice the back wall is that change blindness or is it inattentional blindness? It's kind of a mixture of both, right? So that's, this is the technological difference between the two, but don't worry too much about splitting hairs on that. They're both. Demonstrations of this limitation of spatial attention. Spatial attention has been compared to a spotlight beam. So it's a common metaphor used to describe our selective spatial attention. That we can kinda shine it, our attention anywhere in the visual field, um, and, um, we're shining a spotlight, of course, you know, going back to this example where we're staring at the centre dot, we're shining our spotlight right at this plus sign. Even, even though it's covert attention, our eyes aren't fixate a bare, our attentional spotlight is in that location of space. So it doesn't necessarily have to do with bereavement arise. It's well worth attending. And the implication of this is that we have all of this information in a scene. When we shine our spotlight onto something. It emphasizes that aspect of the scene, but it dims or excludes information that's not in our spotlight of attention. One snuck the spotlight metaphor. Oh, this was just a demo of like the difference between a change blindness in inattentional blindness or change blindness would be, you know, the sidewalk disappearing. The short changing. Where inattentional blindness would. This would be better classified as inattentional blindness. So the, the scene in Game of Thrones, and I think it's the season finale are like a couple episodes before the season finale or the show's finale where she has a eris has a star were US Starbucks cup on the table and I didn't notice when I watched it. Of course, it was like the next day that it was pointed out. Oops. Okay. So those are both change line isn't inattentional blindness. And I agree the last few episodes of Game of Thrones and very disappointing. So change blindness and inattentional blindness are both spatial attention limitations of spatial awareness. There's other limitations of attention of another famous one is one that you guys did in the zaps experiment. So the attentional blink. And this doesn't have to do with limitations spatially, but it has to do with attentional limitations. Temporal limitations of attention. Shut this pole. So just to show you again to remind you that you guys did this in those apps experiment. What you do in this task is that there's going to be a series of symbols prevent presented really quickly. And your task is to report every letter that appears in red. 123. Happens really quickly. Imagine when you did those apps study. That's, it just felt probably the one subjective experience you've had was that it was just a really, really, really difficult task. And so what happens visually in is time here, going from left to right. And you have the series of letters that are being presented. At time one, you have the first red letter and I. And then at time two, you have the second red letter, a B, that you're tasked to report these two letters. And then there's this time between T1 and T2. And that's called the SOA, this stimulus onset asynchrony, which you can just think of as the lag between the first thing you're supposed to notice in the second finger supposed to notice. Yeah. So Gabriel Say I always noticed the first letter but never see the next one. And that is actually that is this funnel, the phenomenon here. And the idea is, it's actually, I didn't have, I think, enough introspective insight to notice that I was doing that. To me. It just felt like the hard task and I didn't really have much insight into what was going on. But as Gabriel pointed out, this is what's happening with the attentional blink, is that the attentional blink phenomena is the second of two targets can't be detected, are identified when it appears close in time to the first. So conditioning on you have to condition on that. You've noticed the first one. So conditioning on noticing the I. You don't notice the the B. And this is an overall class average data looks really like the reference results. And what this dip here is, is the attentional blink. So on the y axis, you have the percentage identified. So you have the first stimulus here being identified. And the second one not being identified in a third stimulus than being identified. And so it's not that every single red stimulus in the stream is not going to be noticed. It's just that there's a certain time lag. If it's presented at a certain time lag after the first one and the first one is notice the second one will be missed. And I, I think what helps me kind of think about the attentional blink is this analogy here that you can think of. Your attentional capture system is like a net. And you have the first red letter that comes along this fish. And your, your net is in the water. And in order to attentionally capture that fish, you have to pull your net out of the water and that takes some time. So there's sometime when your attention or the net isn't in the water. And so if the second fish comes along, well, you're, a net is out of the water, you're going to miss it. If, on the other hand, with F1 here, there had been a fish that came along right after it. You might actually pick both fish up in your net. And so if your net is still in the water, you might capture if it's close enough in time to be sort of captured with that first episode, you might notice it. But if it's in this, this gap where our net is out of the water, we're going to miss the second stimuli, and then the third stimuli comes along. Your net is back in the water, you're able to capture that next stimuli. So that's the attentional blink. And it's just another demonstration of limited attention that this, in this case temporal rather than than spatial. Did somebody have their hand up? I'm I'm go ahead and jump in. If you have a question, there are a lot of hands up based on the gorilla question. So, so it is basically like identifying the color red, a myths like the other colors. And then identifying the letter emits the other letters you've seen. And then you can pay attention to the next stimulus. E Yeah. Yeah. Categories that isn't like something like just generally like you're kind of internal clock of like taken information process, taken process. I think of it more like that. And I don't think this model is necessarily specific about those two alternatives. But the way I think about it, it's like, yeah, there's, there's some sort of your attention is jumping from object to object, object. And it's, it's essentially taking a second to switch between attention on one object and attention on another object. It's like a, it's like a computer clock. Like computers. Computers aren't like fluid. Like they have like we're yeah. Understanding and then you could adjustment. Yeah. You could think about it like that. I think I think that's a fine analogy. Anybody else have a question? Okay. So going back to this William James quote, this idea of attention, there's all this simultaneous things possible that we can attend to. Attending to one thing implies withdrawal from other things to deal effectively. And one way that this has been talked about, sorry, it's going to look at the chapter, isn't it? So one way that this idea that we have this limitation of attention, it has been referred to as a bottleneck, bottleneck models of attention. And the idea is that we can't consciously attend all the information that's available. And so there's a restriction of bottlenecks. You have all this sensory information coming into the system. But the information that's actually going to get attended, attended, that's going to enter conscious awareness, that's going to enter working memory is limited version of all the sensory information that enters the system. Just like with pouring water out of a bottle with a thinner neck and neck. And so some key questions in attention research. One question is how is it that people ignore distracting stimuli when they're trying to focus their attention on one task. How does the system decide what to allow through the bottleneck and what not to allow through or what to allow through first. And then one question that has fueled a lot of debate and attention research is when, So, at what point is irrelevant information filtered out? So there's some sort of capacity limit or some sort of filter, some sort of bottleneck. What the exact nature of it is debated. And when in processing does this bottleneck or filter happen? But Nathan and MIR and tune, did either of you have a question? Yeah, I had a question about so I find that it's harder to filter like one-way conversations, but then the cocktail party effect, it's easier to like filter those out. Do you know? It's always hopping off topic, but you don't normally phone conversation. They can only hear one side conversations more. It's harder to filter out. So I think I make sure I understand what you're saying. So if you're if you're on the phone and versus in a room with a lot of people talking. Why you'd have more trouble limiting, filtering out the phone conversation than than people in the room talking. More like solid index uses talking on the phone. It's harder to focus because you're like fill in the graphs up what they're saying angel sting. Oh, I see. Okay. So you have two people next to you having a conversation? I don't know the answer. This is a really interesting observation though. So you have two people talking and you can just filter out there. They're conversation versus somebody on the couch next to you talking on the phone is really annoying and distracting. Yeah. For whatever reason, I that isn't super interesting observation. I totally understand that. I don't know. My guess is that my guess would be something to do with the information that's being processed. And like there's part of you that is like more interested because there's missing information. So you're sort of trying to solve the puzzle or there's like not maybe a dynamic flow of the cadence. And so it's like more jarring. But I don't know the answer that you have. Do you have thoughts? Yeah, I thought something very similar, like it's more of industry and say you are curious you to devote more attention to it. Yeah, like it's harder to write, right? You win the other. It's a boring conversation when there's just two people talking about something, but you only have half the conversation and part of your mind is engaged in the puzzle-solving that's uncertainly plausible to me. I've never really explicitly articulated that observation. I'm curious now to see what research there is on that. Yeah, more prediction. Oh, the turn taking instinct. I like that idea. Or this is Sean. Yeah, yeah, these are good ideas. Make sense. Do you have anything on this? I don't know, but it's an interesting question. It is a really interesting question, right? Ok, so back to this idea of the dichotic listening task. So I'm gonna tell you again about this dichotic listening task, the original filing, and then just a bunch of tweaks that have been done to this that have led to different models of attentional processing and different sort of knowledge. So one observation, original observation from the dichotic listening task is. You can filter out that unintended channel. People can shadow effectively and effectively nor what's coming in the unattended ear. As I said before, we're aware of changes in low-level perceptual physical features in the unattended ear. So if they're suddenly non speech sounds clicking, buzzing. A robotic versus human voice changes to a robotic voice or vice versa. If it's a distinct enough change the gender of the speaker. We tend to be unaware of higher level features. So semantics, the meaning of the message syntax, I'm sentence versus random words. We won't notice that the language change. If the, if the physical properties of the speaker stay the same, then if you switch from English to Czech, people often don't notice these sorts of changes. And so the question, this is, this is behavioral data, this is behavioral observations. And so the question from misbehave, these behavioral observations are things like what happens to this information? Is this information ever processed? Is it process, but it just doesn't make it to conscious awareness or working memory. Doesn't make it to conscious awareness and working memory, but it just quickly forgotten. Oh cool, thanks John, Sean, I guess found a paper that directly relates to this. Thank you. So kind of going to, this is going to be kind of a theme a little bit with, with some of the models we talked about is, we don't believe attention works this way now, but I think it's useful as cognitive scientists to sort of think of the evolution of a field of study. How different thinking, you know, we have these behavioral results that inform these models. We have new behavioral results that lead us to tweak those models. Sometimes completely throw them out. So in a few different cases in this class, we're going to kind of talk about the early sort of instantiation of the model that did lend a lot of useful framing to how we think about a problem. And then sort of the evolution of that, those models. Just to kinda see how, how the science evolves. Also to think about, you know, just because theres a model present today that does a really good job of explaining the current behavioral data, doesn't necessarily mean that model is going to stick around to new sort of instantiations of experiments, right? So Brodmann's filter model. And just so you kind of have a little bit of a sense of the history of the field. So broadens filter model. We talked about it very briefly at the beginning of the class, was one of the first kind of models and cognitive science really informed by this, the serial processing flow diagrams that were being used in computer science. We're kinda novel at the time. And so he took column cherries data, the dichotic listening task data, and said, Okay, what might be going on? How might we be processing information that leads to this, these behavioral results. And so Robbins filter model of these inputs, you have a sensory store. The auditory information is activating your auditory system. So you have the sensory store the information. And then he propose this selective filter. And he proposed that the filter filters out on perceptual or physical characteristics. So if you're attending to a particular voice, particular male voice, you're going to filter on that sound and maybe filter out different male voice or a female voice or whatever it is that filter is operating on those physical dimensions of the stimulus. So that's where the bottleneck comes in. And only things that make it through that selective filter that match the perceptual features that you're attending to are going to make it to higher level processing and into working memory. Okay, so can you think of something we taught, we talked about briefly, an observation that might challenge a model like this that we're filtering entirely on these perceptual features. Give you a hint. So the example that we talked about last time, when, when someone says your name, yeah, perfect. The cocktail party effect. So the contravariant effect, where we're able to selectively attend to particular auditory information. Some information that we're not attending to gets in interesting information, specifically something like when we hear our name A1, did you have a question or about the NEA? What about speed? What about like, if you hear someone talking and like I guess like without like a noticeable pitch increase like a increase in speed like a times two. With that noticeable, I think I think that qualifies as a perceptual dimension. I don't know if they specifically tested speed, but I think that I think that would qualify as a as a perceptual dimension. Yeah. But yeah. Assuming assuming that it classify, it qualifies as a perceptual dimension, then yeah, that would be something that we would filter on Yana. Add a question about like this, this model. So is it that is, he's saying that each person has their own set of things they're listening to more or is it bad to think of it in the moment, right? So if I'm talking to you at a party, I've decided that I'm attending to yon his voice. These are the physical features of her voice and my brain is like, that's the that's the, the stream of information you should let through the filter. Don't let other fixed onto bat streamed on whether the other Information in as I was thinking like, if we, we do hear things from the like, just the fact that people get distracted. So at the same party, if some girl yells, r, starts crying or like if there's some kind of very highly emotional response, we will also pay attention to that. Yes. And I think that that because that's a dramatic physical change, then I I I think rod bent would allow for that because there's, you're filtering on this perceptual, this physical feature. And so a dramatic change in the physical feature would capture our attention in this model. But Let's say that you're ignoring the voice of the person sitting next to you having the conversation in the other room. You're still, you're hearing it but you're ignoring the, the, the, the meaning. But then they start talking about you. Even though nothing in the perceptual dimension changed their voices and change their speed, their pitch, nothing, nothing like that changed. But the semantic information changed. You hear your own name. That's not a physical change, but it still is something that gets higher-level processed at a higher level. That's the kind of criticism of province filter model is that some information does get through. And so, so, oh sorry. So as he's saying that usually we do not filter by information. We filter by how it's kind of presented, are packaged. Yes, some sort of physical, some sort of physical perceptual feature. And that is early filter and it's going to select on these physical dimensions and will notice dramatic changes in the physical dimension. But if you know the conversation across the room changes, we're not going to notice that semantic changes. So problem, the cocktail party effect, the fact that notice your name. Other studies that have demonstrated this, if you're attending to this message, dear seven Jane and U, in the unattended ear, there's 89. And then you're asked to shadow, oftentimes things from the unattended channel seep into the attended message. So this person might report dear Aunt Jane filling in that middle word from the unattended channel. They're not even aware that it came from the unattended channel. They just end up shadowing a sentence that makes more sense. And the suggestion here is that nothing about the perceptual or physical features of the unattended message changed. There was a piece of semantic information that made it into the attended channel based on meaning alone, right? So it's things like this. Things based, basically, the summary is it's, there's instances where it's not just these physical or perceptual dimensions that allow us to notice things. There's things like our own name, a sentence that makes more sense semantic information. These things that we're referring to as these, you know, high level features that do break through that filter. And treason proposed is just a tweak on broadband filter model. It's still considered an early selection model, meaning that the bottleneck happens before higher-level processing. But basically rather than just the selective filter that just doesn't allow anything in. And treason model is you have this bottleneck. It does select on perceptual physical features more strongly. But there is in that signal is passed through strongly. But the unattended message, or sorry, the, the, the other information that you're filtering out, it eliminated completely. It's attenuated. So it's just, you can think of it as just turning the volume way down on the unattended information and it still making into higher levels of analysis. It's just the volumes really, really, really quiet. And this explains phenomena like when you hear your own name, if you think back to when we talked about the feature and that's last time this idea of having some sort of activation level that is preexisting and the system. Imagine your own name, your own name, that concept, that sound is a really active concept in your mind. And so if, if somebody says it across the room, it gets through the filter because everything's going through the filter. It's just really dimmed down, it's really quiet. It's this attenuated stream. But because your name is so active, such an active concept in your mind already, it just takes a tiny, tiny quiet little signal to push it past its activation level and push it into working memory or conscious awareness. And so ideas or concepts that are already really active in your mind. Even though the signal is really attenuated and quieted down, concept is active enough. It will make it into conscious awareness. So in the bottom right corner here we have something like your own name. The signal strength, the attenuated message that's going to be needed to activate that concept in your mind is going to be really low because it's already really activate. It isn't a little bump to push it pass a threshold into awareness as opposed to a word that's really uncommon like root omega, not a lot of activation. So a quiet, an attendant, an attenuated message isn't going to bump it. It's going to take a, isn't gonna bumping into conscious awareness your working memory. It's going to take a really strong signal to, for it to reach its activation level to be processed and get into working memory. Any questions about this idea of early selection models and Brodmann's filter model versus treason is attenuation model. What does attenuated mean? Oh, yeah. Just, just reduced. Reduced or quieted down. If you attenuate a situation, you sort of it could be make it better, but it's like we're reducing the negative part of it. I see. Okay. Yeah, we can attenuate. You can just think about turning down the volume. Okay. Good question. Yeah. Dimmer switch, something like that. Oh, sorry. I have a quick question. So why are these both are these different models? Both early selection models? Good question. Yes. Yeah, they're both early selection models. And, and what we mean by an early selection model you can think of as the bottleneck or the filter. One is a selective filter, just a, basically a stronger filter. Then the attenuating filter is the information's let in but the filters happening early on before higher level, meaning analysis. Ok. Whereas, whereas treatments saying everything like the entire cocktail party is going into your head. But there's really only one channel. That's like at like normal volume, everything else is decrease. But if you do hear something like your name, then you'll pick up on that. Even if the signal is low because you already you're kind of always expecting to hear your own name. Yeah, exactly. There's some activation currently in your mind. Yeah. So so the attendee, The attend the filter attenuates and as such, it dims it down, it quiets down. But the filter happens-before meaning analysis. But then, so, so Broadbent, what's, what's Broadbent like? Selective to higher level? Yeah. Yes. So the only thing is you could just think of it. He has a more stringent filter. There's not that quiet stream of unintended infant, meaning information that's getting in the filters happening. For higher level processing, which I'm sorry, my head books literally cut out for the last five seconds. So that's going to be like the last five seconds. I think what I said was, it's an early filter. Make it happening before meeting analysis. In the Broadbent model, the filter is more stringent in the trees MM, and model the feature that filter is weaker, but it's still, I mean, who wouldn't hearing your name across a cocktail party? Because because I feel like I've had that effect before, where someone will say my name and it'll snap me out a conversation that I wouldn't have normally, like, hurt even if they're not talking about me. Because like other people are named A1. So there's a lot of false positives there. But I'll hear someone say like my name, even if they're not talking about me or to me. So is treatments more of like a relaxed or more like a tree or odd model. Friedman is saying that like everybody's name, anybody's name and the party, all that information is getting through the filter. It's just getting through the filter at such a low volume. And so when aid and passes through its still at a really low volume. But because it takes just a little bit of activation for you to analyze it further. It is already highly activated in your mind. So even though the name drew gets through to doesn't activate anything for you, pray you have this higher-level starting point of activation for your name. And so just take that little bump to make it an analyzed for meaning. But that part that can't be explained Groupon. Ben's model? Yeah. Exactly. Because he doesn't have any quiet information getting through. Perfect. Okay. Yeah, great question. So these are the early selection models. Now there's problems. The way to research that pose problems for trees means model treason and sort of softer version of Brodmann's model and studies like this. So you have this attended channel, I think the studies really interesting. Yeah, there's attended channel. They were throwing stones at the bake. The word bank is ambiguous. It could mean a riverbank or it can mean the financial institution. Now you're not attending to this other channel. If somebody were to ask you to report what was going on in the other channel, you would say you have no idea what the meaning of these words are. But in the unattended channel, somebody saying river, stream, forest water. In that condition, even though you can't consciously report what is happening in that stream. People who are hearing words about rivers are more likely to interpret this word as a riverbank. Another condition people are hearing words like money, wealth, finances. These people are more likely to interpret the attended channel as being the financial institution. So the suggestion is even though you're not aware of this, seems like that information is being processed for meaning. It's being processed for things other than just the physical dimensions because the meaning of these words is influencing your interpretation of the attended channel. So the meaning of ambiguous 4G is biased towards that unattended channel. And so this is okay wherever class time, sorry about that. We've finished talking about this on Wednesday. I'll stick around if you have questions and I'll go back over this for like a couple of minutes so that we don't leave off in a weird spot. You guys, on Wednesday. I have a question on the or at least selection model slang, tertiary. Can you explain again why route a bigger would take more energy than boat to mass? So I didn't actually explain this very well. I kind of glossed over it a little bit. So the idea is going back to that like the feature that idea, that more men have a higher activation level than less common words. So I think we talked about like, if we're more likely to be able to identify the word cake versus late old because cake is just a more common word. It has a higher activation level for us than a word like label, label. Same thing with root omega and boat. Boat has just a higher activation level in our mind cuz it's a more frequent word in our language. We encounter it more. It's a concept that there's going to be more activated as opposed to a word that you've probably, when was the last time you heard the word root omega? I probably only heard the word root of a, of the last time I taught this class. And so the idea is, it's just. Not something that is active in our mind. And so for it to reach conscious awareness, it's going to take a really strong assuming these all have the same, they all have to reach the same activation level to reach working memory, you're conscious awareness. If you're starting out with a really low activation level, you're going to need a really strong signal to push it past that threshold, as opposed to your own name, which already has a really high activation level. But it doesn't take much to nudge it into conscious awareness. Boat someplace in-between. It's a common word in our language. So they activate, the initial activation is somewhere in between your own name and root omega. So it takes a medium strength to bump it into conscious awareness. So it's not like oh, you hear something uncommon and then utilize more likely to recognize. Yeah. Yeah, it's kind of counter-intuitive and it's kinda like the gorilla study or like an inattentional blindness stuff too, where it's actually the unexpected things that were more likely to miss. One study that I sometimes talk about, but I didn't today because I don't think we would have time. There's like a famous case where there was these police officers that were they ran right by a police officer, being a police officer beating up a I think somebody that he had been chasing or there's some sort of very dramatic fight happening. And there was like a case about Malte like police brutality. And the other police officers said like We really didn't see this other police officer doing this. But the fact was these other police officers ran right by where this other police officers misbehaving in a fight. And the question was kinda like, is it possible that they literally ran right by the street fight and didn't notice it. And then they did some sort of follow up studies showing that they have people like jog and like do some sort of counting task and, and they do a fake fight on the street and they find it most people, if the counting task is like engaging enough, they totally miss this unexpected street fight that's going on. And so that does seem to be a kind of a reoccurring theme, but if it's something expected, it's easier for us to notice and incorporate into the environment that we're navigating versus if it's something we totally don't expect. If we're attending to something else. Because it's just not a concept that's activated for us. And so if we're not attending to it when it's deemed way down the messages attenuated. It's it doesn't reach conscious awareness. That makes sense. Thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. Any other questions? Hi, professor. I had a question about the asynchronous participation actually hurt. So I signed up for, and I've been watching like all the lectures. They either real time if I can or or I'll just watch it like within the right amount of time. But for last weeks, I think it was like MAN, mundane one say, I didn't realize that the asynchronous participation was moved from the home page to the Assignments page. Because originally they were just on the whole I think we just maybe forgot to link them. And so I was thinking like maybe they'd be posted later because like one of the lecturers took some time to like be posted and nurturing for Yea, Yeah. So go ahead and just do them now. If you miss them. I think they were low sprout check if I can access them still. Ok. Yeah, let me check. Set them. But yeah, I think some people on the piazza also ask questions about it, but the piazza is not really being answered. Okay? Yeah, I'm really behind on responding to these sorts of things. This is law. Another quiz. Sorry, I didn't just name one thing. See. Okay. So I will just I will go ahead right now and shift those two being due in a couple days. And I'll post that on Piazza backup and yeah, that would be awesome. Thank you so much. Thank you. Any other questions?