Let's start the recording. Okay, so Let's get started. Are there any questions or comments. Because I have a few announcements, the first exam. Is a week. From And the material. Will cover. All up to and including Today's Lecture. We will be re posting Posting Practice problems. Any other questions or comments. And give you more information about it on Tuesday. Really a Friday to do the midterm. Yeah, it's gonna be a 24 hour window of time. 2024 hour Window. It's gonna be timed 80 minutes Right, it's gonna be the window is going to be from 8am Friday. To 8am Saturday. The exam hasn't been written yet. So I don't know how many questions there are. There will be some short answer, multiple choice and there will be some Some answers, where you're gonna have to justify your answer. So it's gonna be a mix. It's all gonna be great scope. It is open book, open notes. Open Book Open notes. Open calculator. Open online calculator. I mean, that's the point of the practice problems, but they're not. This is the, this is the whole dilemma of You know, giving an exam. I want to give you some problems that kind of get you thinking, but they're not going to be the exact same problems as the exam, but they're going to be on similar topics. I guess. If you just do the practice problems, that's not that's not enough, because you need to know what we, the other stuff that we talked about. We have to scan or upload our answers you answer directly into grade scope, but I'll give you an option to upload them if if that is your preferred method, but I encourage you to just take them integrate scope. Will be the same difficulty as the homework. Yeah, I guess, comparable. Okay, any other questions. Okay. Do we have only one submission attempt one submission attempt. Yes. Well, the homework still says be posted before the test. Yeah, the homework solutions should be posted today. What else besides the practice problems. Should we use to study. You should use the practice problems, you should use all this stuff that the teachers when are in discussion, you should look at all of the lecture slides in the lecture material. You should look at all the hallmarks you should look at all the review quizzes. So all of those things along with the practice problems. I guess I'm really good thing to use for studying is look at the posted solutions that that we posted So you get a A good idea of how homework problems or one good way of how homework problems could be answered. All these I'll even write that on here is Review Posted Do this, even if you got four points. There's always something to be learned. Okay. Alright, so what are we doing today, we're going to finish up stars and bars and talk about In what scenarios. Do you use stars and bars what scenarios. Do you use combinations permutations power rule, those kinds of things. And it's mainly It's mainly the difference between distinguishable and indistinguishable Okay, we're going to look at integer equate gems positive integer equations and then we're going to look at something called the 12 fold way which is a A way to organize all of these different accounting problems that we have done and kind of put them all into the same table so that you can kind of think about them. Okay. Then we're going to learn about the pigeonhole principle and learn how to argue certain statements using the pigeonhole principle. Some examples of the pigeonhole principle and then we're going to get into the next. Topic of the class, which is encoding so encoding will not be on the exam. I don't know if we'll, we'll probably get to it will probably start it. But that'll be kind of for the next the next time. Okay, so review. If I had five castles and 11 nights, which binaries Jane with this configuration map to just remember what we're doing here. You, you draw zero for each night. And then you put a one in between the castles. Okay, so what's the answer to this five castles and 11 nights. How many Arrangements 15 choose for It's going to be 11 the number of castles. I'm sorry, the number of nights plus number of castles minus one choose the number of castles minus one. Which is also equal to the number of night. Number of nights, plus the number of cancels minus one choose the number of nights. Right, so you can kind of do it either way 15 choose for or 15 choose 11 Okay, good. So what about if I had the restriction. But I needed at least one night in each castle. So without the restriction. We start with these 15 blank spaces and we choose four of them to be bars. Right. So for example, if I chose these four To be bars, then that would mean I would have I would have zero In castle one One. In castle to Five. In castle three and so One in four and three In fact, okay. So, um, So that's without the restriction. So with the restriction You can just take You could just take your 11 nights and take five of them doesn't matter which five because because they're indistinguishable And put one night in each Castle, tell them to go inside of the castle make themselves comfortable, they're just going to be there. That's going to be their castle that they That they guard. Okay, so you have one night per cancel. Now, how many nights. Do you have leftover there are six So you just distribute the six. So now there are six nights plus five minus four. Oh, sorry, five minus one choose five minus one is equal to Any questions about that. Where's the minus one coming from. Does anybody have any could anybody shed some light on that. Because one of the position is fixed. Um, No, I mean like, there cannot be an empty. So, there cannot be an utter Colombian empty Castle, so Sorry, I don't know how to like express it. Well, my bad. I think the minus one is because Is that they're talking about is from There are there are Let's see. If there are n castles and there's n minus one divisions between the castles. Right. So there's five castles and you can use four divisions between them. Yeah. Okay, so I guess I did it the other way. If I have castles and n nights. The number of ways to put n nights and K castles is n plus k minus one choose k minus one. We talked about this last time now. In each castle must have at least one night, then it's n minus one choose k minus one, right, because it's an plus k minus one minus Right, you put one night into each castle. So you kind of used to track off K of those nights. There's K castle. So there's one for each console. So you should subtract off K But then you're, you're, this is the amount of nights, you have leftover right Number of leftover nights. But you still have the same number of castles, so k minus one. So that's where you get n minus one choose k minus one. Okay, any questions about that. We have two nights and each castle. We just attract UK from the number of nights. Exactly, yes. Okay integer equations I know these showed up on the review quiz. So if you'd like, you can kind of go back to the review quiz and try it again after seeing This after seeing this slide. Okay. Consider this equation A plus B plus C plus D is equal to 10. Now, if A, B, C and D can be any real number than this has infinitely many solutions. In fact, this describes some sort of like four dimensional surface, right. But if we restrict ABC and D to be non negative integers, then this is just the castle and the night problem. 10 is the number of nights. And these variables are the castles. A Castle be will have like a tower. And then like a Just like one tower castle Castle, see what Two Towers. Like that. And then castle D will just be kind of like a shorty Right. You're trying to put this 10 into those variables like for example one solution. Is a is equal to three, b is equal to five c is equal to one in D is equal to one. Right. That just like Oh, ranging those nights into any non negative integers. And did your solutions are there. 10 plus four minus one, minus one. Minimum each variable can be is one know that's why I said non negative non negative means greater than or equal to zero. So they can you can have empty castles, you can have variables equal to zero. OK, so number of stars number of bars. So this is also like number of nights. And number of Councils. So there's 13 choose three 286 solutions. Any questions about that. So in general, if you have a an equation. With K variables is equal to some integer n and the restriction is that all the end and all the A's all have to be non negative integers, then this just turns into accounting problem, it turns into a stars and bars problem. Okay. What if I restrict it to positive integers. This is the same as placing in Soldiers or Into a castle such that each castle must have at least one soldier, right. This is the same thing that we just did. So essentially what we're going to do is we're going to take these and nights and place one of them in each one of the castles. Okay, so we have a one plus two plus, plus a k is equal to and I'm going to place one night in each one of the castles. Right. And so I've taken away K nights from my solution right now, those, those nights are right, those numbers or whatever you want to call them. They're already fixed, you can kind of just get rid of them, and forget about them. They've already kind of been set. So then you take the, the remaining and minus k and distribute those. So it's going to be and minus k. And there's K councils, so plus k minus one choose k minus one, which is the same as n minus one choose kings. Questions about that. Oh, oh boy. Same kind of thing. All right. Let's, um, let's do a few exercises. Okay, how many enters into your solutions are there to x plus y plus z is equal to 18 if x has to be greater than or equal to three. Well, You basically like put the three nights that need to be an X in there and you replace And so now it's like placing 15 nights into X y&z 15 Plus, there are three castles. So three minus one choose three minus one. So that's 17 choose to Okay, so that's the answer that one. Anybody have any questions about that first one Okay, now for this second one, it says that x has to be less than or equal to 10 What does anybody have any ideas about how to Count this It's not like you can just put 10 nights in there willy nilly and and count them again, just like we did for that first problem. So is there to be 11 or greater, and then subtract. Okay, good. Counted with the compliment. Exactly. So the compliment Is x plus y plus z is equal to Or x is greater than or equal to 11 we can count this easily right Does anybody know the answer to the compliment Nine choose to Um, yes. Right. Because you take away 11 and you have seven leftover right seven plus three minus one choose three minus one. Is equal to nine and choose two Okay, so then the total Total Now is all the possible solutions, right, with no restrictions at all, which is going to be 18 plus three minus one choose three minus one minus Seven plus three minus one choose three minus one which is 20 choose to minus nine choose to Get any questions about that. Okay, what if we have restrictions in more than one variable. So now we have X y&z are all greater than or equal to three. So basically you put three x three and why three and z. And you take that away from 18 so you're taking nine away from 18 so this just turns into the problem X plus why I call it x prime plus y prime plus z prime is equal to nine. So it's going to be nine plus three minus one choose three minus one. Which is 11 choose to Okay, this one. It's kind of a pain to do But I'm gonna have you all do this as an exercise. Can anybody give me like a A short explanation on on why this one is going to take a lot more work than the one we just did. Right, exactly. Inclusion exclusion and and counting with the compliment. So you have to do the compliment and inclusion exclusion a lot like That homework problem where you had to avoid those x's in that thing or the homework problem where you had to have at least one valid at least one compliment. It's kind of like that. So you need to use the compliment And inclusion exclusion. Okay, so you all can try that out on your own. Okay, so here's some more exercises. In these are going to kind of take us into the 12 fold way I just kind of want to organize all of our all of the things that we've done so far. Well, not all the things, but a lot of the things we've done so far. So let's say we have three labeled castles and we have 10 nights. Now these nights are going to be either distinguishable or indistinguishable. Okay, how many ways can you arrange the nights in the castles. If the nights are indistinguishable This is indistinguishable means Stars and Bars. So this is going to be. Oops. Number of nights plus number of castles minus one choose number of castles minus one. Okay, now instead of indistinguishable. What if they are distinguishable or distinct. Can anybody tell me the answer to this, to this one. This this bullet point Okay, good. Three to the 10. This is I'm strings over an alphabet. Right. Each night has three choices of castles to go to me. Okay, now let's go back to indistinguishable In and then and then we have at least one night is in each castle. Okay, so this one again. This one is something that we've seen before you put a night and each castle and you You just do stars and bars on the remaining thing. So it's going to be n minus one choose k minus one. So it's going to be nine choose to Okay, now What if, how many ways can arrange the nights in the castles. If the nights are distinct and at least one night is in each castle. Does anybody know how to do this. Compliment okay good compliment and And inclusion exclusion. So again, this is a lot like the, you know, these kind of problems that we've seen before. So just to give you an overview Is going to be The set of all Is empty. Right. Or castle two is empty. Or castle three is empty. Okay, so this is an inclusion exclusion on three sets and then you have to subtract it from the total Okay, it turns out to be this thing so you subtract it from the total three to the 10 minus three times to to the 10 plus three. That's it. I guess I could put a minus zero there if you like. Okay, so maybe as an exercise. Try to derive this formula on your own or see where it comes from. Why did I put that minus zero at the end. Does anybody know I mean it's not necessary, of course, because minus zero doesn't do anything. Right. The minus zero is the case is that it's basically the Dorito Of the inclusion exclusion, it's the case where all castles are empty, but that's not possible. So there's no ways to do that. Okay. Questions or comments. Okay, so you can see how different these problems become when you use distinguishable are indistinguishable. So here's something called the 12 fold way and it is we don't. You don't need to learn the whole thing. I just thought that I would present it to you. So you can kind of see that, you know, there is some sort of order to all of these things that we've been counting Okay, so, um, let's say n is the is a set of nights and the cardinality of and his little end And then we have x as a set of cancels. Okay, so x. So I used K before but that's okay. You want to put the knights into the castles this announced the saying that you want a function that that maps. Nights to castles. Okay. And so we're going to basically organize this table into whether the knights in the castles are labeled versus what kind of function, are we talking about any old function or does it have to be a one to one function or a on to function. Okay, let me get my notes out because This kind of gets confusing sometimes. Here we go. Okay. So if I want to put Nights into X castles in any old way and they're both oh god what happened here. Okay, I'm back. I want to put the castle. The knights in the castles and the old way that's going to be x Little X rays to the little end. Okay, any questions about that. That was just kind of like the that second example we did in the previous slide. Okay. Each castle has at most one night. Okay, so this one is a little bit funny. We haven't done this in a while, but this This corresponds to permutations. Yeah, labeled means distinct like they all have names right and unlabeled means that they're in. INDISTINCT So each castle has at most one night. So that means that the castles can be empty, or they can have one night. So in this particular example, the number of cancels. We're assuming is greater than or equal to the number of nights. Right. Or else you have too many nights. So the first night has x choices. The second night. It has x minus one choice is right. The third nine x minus two and so on. So this really is permutation of x comma and Right. Okay. Now, what about if they're both labeled and each castle has at least one night. This is the inclusion exclusion compliment thing. This is the thing that we just did in the previous slide, so Think about this as an exercise. But the we've already seen an example of this, right. This is like the Three to the 10 minus three times to to the 10 plus three minus zero type thing, but This was with three castles, if there were four castles and you'd have four terms, if there were five castles and you'd have five turret. Right. So the number of terms grows with the number of castles, because you have more and more inclusion exclusion things that you have to do. Okay, so that's that. Okay. Now, if I want to put labeled nights. Or sorry unlabeled nights into labeled boxes. This is the one where we're talking about the nights are indistinguishable there. You can't tell the difference. So this is the problem that we just did this is going to be and plus x minus one choose x minus one. Right, we're just kind of putting nights in the castles willy nilly. There's no restrictions. But the thing that kind of drives this problem is that the nights are labeled and the castles are labeled Okay, now What if I want each castle to have at most one night. So what we're doing here is we're basically choosing and of those castles to be guarded and the other castles are unguarded Labelled Atmos one box. So all of these in all of these problems. All the nights have to go to castles. That's kind of the, one of the Restrictions that we're using. You can't have nights just hanging out in the field. They all have to be somewhere. Okay, so I have x castles. And I need at most one night per castle. So that means each castle either has one night or zero nights. So essentially what you're doing is your choosing which castles get guarded and you're leaving the remainder. So this is just excuse in Okay. Now, what about if each castle has at least one night. Well, this is something that we just did right this is this is the one where you put the nights in the cast you put one night in each castle. Tell them to go inside make themselves comfortable and then arrange the rest. So that one is this Okay, so this is this is a summary of what we've done so far. These last two rows. We're not going to, we're not going to do them in this class, but I'll just kind of give you an A. An idea. If you have if the nights are labeled and the castles are unlabeled Then that means that it doesn't matter the ordering of the castles. Right. And these involves something called Sterling numbers. Of the second kind And they they actually have you know they're they're actually related a little bit to this cell in a weird way. But we're not really going to get into that. Yeah, we can go over that in a second. Let me just finish this thing here. So the unlabeled and unlabeled. This involves something called an integer. Partition Which we may get to a little bit later. It's kind of like the number of ways you can split up an integer. And so you can look it up if you like, but those those last two rows weren't really not going to Okay, can we quickly go over why the Atmos column has XP an XC and for the first two rows. Yes, let's let me get a new slide. So I have some Okay. So we have x castles. And and nights. In there and the castles are labeled And the nights are labeled Right. And we want At most, one night. Per castle. So that's the first row right now just noticed something is that then for this to make sense, the number of castles. Should be greater than equal to the number of nights. Right. So let's say for example, X is equal to five and and is equal to, let's say, three. So how many ways can I put three labelled nights into five castles. So let's draw a picture. So we have five castles. Here's one, here's one with the tower. This one has a Tower and a, what do you call this thing. This one's just a kind of a fortress block. And then we have one with to tout Okay, you have five castles and you have three and they're numbered 1234 and five, they're different. And then you have three nights. And they're also different. So they label them A, B and C. So how many ways can I put those nights into those castles. Well, Night. A has five choices. Give a the first choice. He has five choices right but we can only have at most one night per castle right so Let's say he chose Castle for right Okay give be the second choice night be Has four choices. So let's say he chose castle one and night. See Has three choices. So let's say he chose castle. To So each arrangement is associated with this permutation this three permutation. So it's going to be five times four times three, which is equal to permutation of five comma three Okay. Now, Let's do the unlabeled. So now the we have X castles. On the castles are labeled The nights are unlabeled Well, what we're going to do here is we're just going to choose three of the castles to be guarded right so choose. Three castles. To be guarded Maybe it's the same set one, two and four. But this is the same thing as choosing or the number of ways of choosing a set of size three from a set of size five Okay, questions about that. All right, let's get into the pigeonhole principle. So I'm going to start you off with a pole with a with a multiple choice exercise. Okay. Suppose there were 10 pigeons and nine pigeonholes if all the pigeons flew into one of the pigeon holes. What could. What could you guaranteed to be true. Okay, let's wait for a few more minutes. Okay. Okay, so this picture, you know, this is a picture of 10 pigeonhole put 10 pigeons in nine pigeonholes okay so let's look at what you all say share results. So most of you are saying d. So, d is the right answer. There's at least one pigeonhole with at least Two pigeons. This is always going to be the case now. Let's go through each of the other answers and talk about why they're not guaranteed so Why is a not guaranteed. Can anybody Give me a reason To be a simple counterexample. All the pigeons fly into One Hole right and then you have a bunch of empty things. Okay, good. So that's, that's not that's not guaranteed. How about be There is there. Is one pigeonhole with exactly to pigeon. Also, if all pigeons buy into one hall that all 10 of them are in one pigeonhole then none of the pigeonholes have exactly two pitches. Okay, so that's done. But this there's at least one patient or with exactly one pigeon. I guess the same counterexample works for all like as a counterexample for all three A, B and C. But D is always guaranteed. I should put it in like a green. Green is good. Right. Okay, good. So, Let's do a proof. If there are p pigeons. And H pigeonholes And p is greater than h right you have more pigeons than pigeonholes that's kind of the thing that we're the generalization. We're making Than one pigeonhole has at least two pigeons proof. What is the contra positive of this statement given that there are p pigeons and H pigeonholes. So what's the contra positive of this This statement here. Okay. How we doing okay. So most of you have answered. Alright, so I'm going to share the polling. Share results. Okay, good. See If all pigeonholes have less than two pigeons then p is less than or equal to, ah, So I don't know so that that's that's the right answer for one I don't know about you, but that seems a lot more obvious than the contra positive. So it's just the It's, it's an equivalent statement, but I, at least for me, it's a little easier to wrap my head around. Okay, so that's that's what we're going to prove if all pigeonholes have less than two pigeons then p is less than or equal to, ah, So here's the proof. Suppose that all pigeonholes have less than two pigeons than in each hole there is either zero or one pigeons. So the number of pigeons can be at most H, right, the number of pigeonholes if there is a pigeon for each hole and less than agent any hole is empty. Okay, so we proven the pigeon holed principle. Now let's put it to use. And you might think right now. Well, how can I even put this thing to use it so obvious. I guess before we do that let's let's restate the pigeonhole principle in terms of functions. Okay, so consider the function F that maps as to T with s greater than t, how does this relate to the pigeonhole principle. Okay, good. Let's share. Okay, good. See can not be one to one. And remember the if a function is not one to one that means at least two of its inputs map to the same output that's like two pigeons going into the same pigeonhole Okay, the elements of so the pigeons. The elements of to the pigeon holes, since there are more pigeons and pigeonholes one pigeonhole must contain more than one pigeon in terms of functions. This means that there are two elements x and such that f of x is equal to f of why that's the same as having two or more pigeons pigeon holed pigeons in the same pigeonhole OK, let's look at an example. So suppose you have a square with side length D units show that there. If there are five points in the square, then at least two of them are within D over squared of two units apart. Okay, so we can we can use a simple pigeonhole principle argument here, you can say something like this. Well, there are four divisions Right. So, By I guess we should also say All five points. must fall in A division. So you say something like this by pigeonhole principle by pp. One division. must contain At least two points. So if one division could taste at least two points. Let's see how far away those points could be right. Well, the farthest away that they could be would be at the corners. Right. The furthest They Could be is The corners. So how much is this distance. While this is going to be The square root of d over two plus d over D squared over four plus d squared or four right so that's equal to Oh, shoot. It's going to be d is going to be d squared over to right so the square root of that is d over the squared have to Hey versus they could be at the corners. So the furthest apart. They could be is d squared have to Okay, so this is kind of like a one way to to use it. Right. It's kind of like when you have more things that they into a set of A number of smaller containers. Okay, so this is kind of like a more advanced problem. But I think it was. It's pretty cool. So suppose you select different integers from the range one to 100 Show that in your selection. There are two different integers. A and B such that a divides be okay here's the proof. Recall that any positive integer and can be equal to j times to to the k with Jay odd and k greater than equal to zero. Right. So essentially what you do is you factor. The whatever integer and you take out all the powers of to all the two factors and what you're left with is an odd number, J. Okay. So this odd number. Jay, can be any of these numbers there are 50 of them. Okay, think of those 15 numbers as the pigeon holes in the 51 integers as the pigeons. The 51 integers that you've chosen have to all fall into one of these odd numbers. So by the pigeonhole principle. There exist. At least Two numbers. Out of the Let's say a and b. Such that We to the Let's say to the W. And B is equal to j times to to the y, let's say, Right, but the The idea here is that these jays are equal. So if those jays are equal. And we know that A and B are different. Right. We know a and b are different. So the only way that they can differ is with the powers of two. So assume A is less than B that means that w is less than y, which means that a device be right. So this is a little bit more Subtle in the use of the original principle, but it is a really great way to kind of get at this answer, because if you You try to kind of do this directly It would be really hard. I think you have to think about all the different ways that different combinations. But you sort of distill it down into some Simple argument about You have more sort of pigeons than there are pigeon holes and that means one of those pigeonholes test to have two or more pigeons. Okay, questions about that. Why would a divide be because A is equal to j times to to the w and b is equal to Jay times to have the y And those jays are equal and the twos are equal. So really, the only difference between a and b is how many factors do that. I have an example here, I think. Here are Here are 51 things. I think they do 51 yeah I did 51. So let's write each one of them as their expansion now of the are just 51 random numbers. Of course we can find two of them that one of them divides the other. It's not hard to do. If you just look at them but The The power of this proof is that it guarantees that it works for all selections of 51 numbers. Okay, so Is equal to what 1515 time come on 15 times 222 is equal to 11 times to 28 is equal to seven times two squared, right at nine is equal to 89 if it's just an odd number. It's just equal to itself. At or I guess you could say 89 TIMES TO TO THE zero 85 is 85 TIMES TO TO THE zero 67 is 67 times to the zero 43 is 43 TIMES TO TO THE zero 25 is 25 TIMES TO TO THE zero Is equal to 25 times to to the 174 is 74 divided by 237 3737 times to to the one at one is at one times to the zero 79 times to the zero 95 times to the zero 40 is what Five times to cubed. Okay, so do we find something yet. Oh, we already found we already found to that. Notice that 25 and 50 Their, their jays are equal right 25 is equal to 25 so you could be already found Okay, so let's move on. I mean, we have the number one here. I mean, come on. That just divide ever, but it's not guaranteed that you would have chosen number one. Okay, so here's a bunch of other Statements that you can prove using the pigeonhole principle. We're not going to go through them all, but I do kind of want to say a few of them because some of them are kind of funny so prove that in any group of 13 people there are two who are born in the same month You should already kind of be able to start thinking about how to structure that proof. Right. You have a drawer full of many socks and four colors, black, blue, red and white, there is a power outage in its pitch dark How many socks. Do you need to pull from your door. To be sure, of having a matching pair of socks. So you could you're assuming that you have unlimited supply of all all colors unlimited supply So this is sort of like pigeonhole principle in the other direction you're trying to figure out how many pigeons, you need in order to kind of make the physical principle work. So, how many do you need you need to pull out five right once you pull out five you know that at least two of them is going to be a matching pair. Okay. No person has more than 350,000 hairs on their head. That means or and there are 3.38 million residents of San Diego County. Prove that there exists in San Diego County residents, all of whom have the same number of hairs on their head. I mean, I don't know who those 10 people are but you know that they exist. Okay. Where does this 10 come from this comes from the generalized pigeonhole principle which says that if there are just fine 10 bald people. Yeah, that's a good idea. This is the, this comes from the fact that 350,000 can fit into 3.3 8,000,010 times right and so Is this more of like a many to one function okay there and people in a room prove that among them. There are two persons who same number of sentences in the room just kind of a little different. A little bit more like a graph theory problem. Okay then. Number five is is really kind of a tricky proof. Maybe we can see it a little bit later, but, um, I just wanted to put it on there. If you're interested, let a woman through a AND b AND NOT NECESSARILY distinct numbers. It could be any numbers. They don't have to be distinct that could be the same. There always exists a subset of these numbers. Visible by and I guess I should say integers. Which is pretty interesting. Gotta be greater than Greater than one. Yeah. I have a question for numbers three How do you prove it. Because 350 thousand times 10 is larger than 3 million Oh, Do I screwed up this time. You have 350,000 times I do this wrong. Feel like you know to, you know, order to prove it. You need to have like at least 4.5 million people in San Diego. Shows up a tour can be you know pigeonhole Yeah, because all of those numbers. Between zero and 350,000 they're all mapping to A person. Right. Right. Yes. You only need like 3.3 million where then 250,000 times nigh. Right and Sorry about that. Yeah, you're right. Right, because If you had Right, if you had No way. Right. Yeah, should be 10 that this is good. This is good. Yeah, because Yeah. Yeah, if you have nine with zero right now if you have all those things and you have nine times three and 50,000. So that would mean Right. And then any additional person would increase the number of people in a group of 10 No way to have nine or fewer residents sharing the same number of hairs for all possible numbers. Right. And what does it mean The threshold. Is nine times 350 thousand plus one. I think so, yeah. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, the contra positives are usually more clear for these visual principle problems right Contra Positive means that prove that there exists so contra positive would mean that if all San Diego County. Residents Or I guess you have to say it kind of funny, right, if If for each number of hairs. There are nine or fewer. People With that number. Of hairs. And Their is a maximum of 50,000 times Some of 353.15 million Right. Question number two. I thought these types of questions only work when there is a limited supply, like if there's two black to red to blue to white, then the answer would be fine. But if there's unlimited, then what's stopping me from getting five black socks. Well, then you have to, you have to have those socks are black. So Oh yeah, it makes sense. Okay, so We only have 10 minutes left, so maybe we'll start with this material on Tuesday. Okay. And I'll just stick around for a little while and answer some questions or if y'all have any other Doubts, or if you want to go back to the 12 fold way and talk about those extra cells that we didn't fill in. We could start looking at those or yeah let's end class. Now, I think. Could you go over the inclusion exclusion principle for for the night problem. This last one. On the side before, I think. Yeah. The last one on there. I was just, oh, I don't want to do that. The slide after this This one. Yeah, the last part. I don't know why I got kind of confused on that last part. Okay. Yeah, let's do that. Okay, so you have Three. Labeled Castles 10 labeled nights. Right. And each castle. has at least one night. Um, okay. So let's, let's just kind of start Labeling our sets that we're trying to count. So let's say A is the set of all arrangements. Such that Cancel one has at least One night. Okay, be is the data. The data or castle to has at least one night. Okay. And see will be this where castle three Has At least least one Okay, so what we're trying to do is calculate The cardinality of A intersect be intersects see right we want all of those properties to be true. So instead of doing that, though, we're going to Count the compliment And subtract it from the total So the compliment of this set. See compliment is equal to using the Morgans la a compliment Union be compliment Union see compliment. Now what are A, B, and C compliment or these are the compliments of each one of these things. So a compliment is no nights. In castle one Right be compliment is returned to do this. No nights. In castle to See compliment is no In castle three Okay, so this is inclusion exclusion, because it's a Compliment So in order to count this, we need to subtract it from the total So that's three to the 10 minus the cardinality of A union be Union see right which is equal to three to the 10 minus okay inclusion exclusion, we get the cardinality of A plus the cardinality of b plus Cardinality of see intersect Cardinal you'd be right. Or minus A intersect C. Minus B compliment intersect seat compliment and then plus a compliment intersect be compliment intersect see compliment Okay, each one of A, B, and C is just like if you just threw that castle away right so castle one has no nights, that just means you ignore castle on and you fill in Castle, two, and three. So there's going to be two to the two to the 10 Right. But that's the same argument for each one of these Okay, how about if Castle, a n castle be both don't have any nights. Well, there's only one way to do that is to put all the nights into castle see And then how many ways are there if all the castles are empty zero That makes sense. Thank you. Any other questions or comments. Professor have a question. So for. So for this problem. I understand how you got to to the 10 right because for each night. You can only choose from to castles. But can you also think of it like if a is empty, then each castle have 10 toes. It's up night so it will be 10 square or is that No, you can't do it that way. Hmm, okay. Right to the 10 is different than 10 squared. Right, you got to give the knights, the choices because the Knights of the things that are going into the castles, if you had like giant nights and you were putting castles inside of nights, then you would switch it around that way. But Uh huh. Okay, it matters, who's going into what I feel in these problems. I like to use nights and castles and we're actually going to see this next week, I'll start. Playing a game with you all, because I think that it might help you I don't know see another Another Application. I don't know if I really want to call it application. But another scenario where you're talking about these things, but in each one of these things. It's like you have a container thing and you have an object. And it's all about putting how many ways can you put the objects into the containers. Okay, I see. Thank you. Okay, so see you all next week. Have a nice weekend.