 Oh, right. Oh, oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Alright, let's go ahead and get started to answer a question that came up in the chat. You get only one attempt, but you have unlimited time to work on it before you submit it, before the deadline. So if can give Canvas does things like they say they are. So this is the first time I've, I've assigned graded homework on Canvas. You should be able to get in there and answer some questions, savior, we're go back to it later. Those sorts of things. If anybody is not able to do that, let me now. Okay. Alright. Just real quick, I was going to or the Kinect quizzes graded yes. Look at the syllabus. Alright, so, oh not the Kinect, sorry, not to guess. The connect quizzes are not graded as you should've seen in the announcement. The canvas ones aren't too bad. They both start with C because they look the same. Ok. Just some current events other than the stressing other ones. The first Friday of every month, the government releases the results of their various surveys that tell us what the unemployment rate was the previous month and what the how many jobs were created. So this is the first Friday of the month. It's not a holiday. Because if the first one's holiday, it's not announce them. And so what? The news that came out this morning on the Wall Street Journal, the virus surge and seven months of US jobs growth. The economy lost a 140 thousand jobs in December, while the unemployment rate held at 6.7%. So it says the US. Shed a 140 thousand jobs in December as resurgence, the coronavirus ended seven months of job growth and weaken the economy. Restaurants and bars drove the decline by cutting 372 thousand jobs last month. And basically the new restrictions also hurt hotels, museums, and tourist sites. The US jobless rate, which is the way the financial press talks about the unemployment rate, which we'll talk about it detail at the end of the current chapter, held at 6.7%. So it was unchanged. So this was for December, but it's far below. It's April peak of 14.8%, but still almost twice its pre pandemic level. And if you want to see a graph, the dramatic unemployment rate over the last several years. So it kept going down, down, down, down, down until it hit, it was at 3.5% for several months. And then February and then start going up in March and skyrocketed up to 14.8% last April because of all of the lock downs for the coronavirus. But then it came down really quickly more than any other time. But now it's leveling off at 6.7% in part because of the coronavirus surge. And then here is the monthly change in nonfarm payrolls was very, very negative in April, but then had been recovering, so things were positive. But now that's just petered out and there was a slight decrease. Okay. And I will post along with the lecture notes, some excerpts from this article so you can look at those excerpts. Any questions on this? Alright. So one announcement, I'm likely to post a nine minute video about the unemployment rate prop over the weekend. And I will ask you to do it depends on how how much lecture I get through today. I will ask you to watch it either before the Monday lecture or if I think I won't get to that part, it'll be before the Wednesday lecture. And it's just because we're a little bit slow down with my learning technology and I want to make sure that materials covered so you have enough time to do the problem sets. And this is a video I'd actually prepared back in 2014 when I was doing class flipping. So you can watch it and it it's basically what I will be lecturing on, on the unemployment rates. So just to give you a heads up there, I'll post it as an assignment. Just I want to see how much I get to today before I decide which day I want you to watch it before. Okay. All right. So let's go back to the lecture notes. I want to open this. Open this. I gotta get quicker at this. Alright, let's see, share. I've pad. Suddenly oh, shoot. Suddenly it can you can you hear me right now? Yes. For some reason. Why notes? Because I VPN, my iPad couldn't see the network, but it's because I'd left the VPN on. Okay. Let me try that again. I mean, yes. There we go. Okay. Alright. We set this up so that I can see the chat to alright. Okay. And let me make you guys even bigger. Alright? So remember last time we were talking about the importance of not double counting when you're adding up for GDP. So I just realized my speaker was off. So if you said something, I'm sorry. I missed a tapped it. Okay. We were talking about the importance of not double counting. And one of the ways is just to add a final goods. Another way was to add a value-added across each firm. And that was a way to also not double count, right? And we had left off. Remember we had done the example of the pizzeria and the answer there was $1500 was their value-added. And that was because we took 2 thousand. But we subtracted cheese, tomatoes, flower, gas, electricity, but we did not subtract the value-added. Okay, let's look at another example. Actually, I need to start from the current. Okay? Suppose we have a loaf of or a wheat bread. Sorry, every time I do something on my iPad, it changes the layout on my screen so I can't see things. Okay? Suppose we have a loaf of aura wheat bread that sells for $2. We could just count that as final output for GDP of that bread is being sold to consumers, alright? Or we couldn't stay count the value-added at each stage. Alright, so let's consider doing that. So if we look at ABC grain, which produces the grain, they have revenue of $0.50 and we're assuming they don't buy any inputs from other firms for simplicity. So their value-added would be $0.50. We then go down the production line, predict or production process and we think of say, gold medal flower. Suppose it, they sell their flour for a $1.20, but they buy the ABC grain for $0.50. So that means that their value added is $0.70. Okay, bread, that's all for $2. But they bought the flower for $1.20. Pair that you added is 80 sensed. And if we add all those up, going down, the sum is equal to $2. Alright, so we could get it either by looking at the final good, just counting that, or we can look at value-added at each stage of the production process. Alright, so to summarize, to avoid double counting, when measuring GDP for the economy, we can either add up only final goods production or we can calculate value-added for each producer and then sum it up over all producers to get GDP, right? We should get the same answer for dinner, right? Okay, so remember we're going through four parts of a definition. Alright, so we, we already did the marked whites market value than we talked about why it's final goods and services. And now we're talking about produced within a country supporters. So, so because it's gross domestic product, it has to be produced within a country's borders. So here are some examples. If you look at the production of Tesla's from a US Tesla plant, that counts as production within the US borders. Now that's also true for, say, ponder, courts from the US Honda plant. Even though Honda's a foreign country or for foreign company to Japanese company. But the production is in US borders. So it counts as US hoops, as US GDP. Ok. Similarly, San Diego Zoo admission bought by a foreign tourists counts as US GDP because that service is provided within the borders of the US. So all three of these are counted as GDP. And finally, in a given time period. So we're looking at the production of new goods and services that's really, really important. During a period. Its production is a flow, would sort of say the number of cars coming off the assembly line. That's a flow during a period. Usually it's measured quarterly or annually at a year level. Even if it's quarterly, it's often reported at an annual rate. So they'll say, when you read GDP, say at the Bureau of Economic Analysis, when it gives that to you, GDP in the fourth quarter was such and such, say 21 trillion. Much wasn't really report produced in the fourth quarter. That's how much you would have produced over a whole year if you produce that much in one-quarter. Alright? So the definition of DEC, a few additional principles to know why She's abandoned this for the time being. Today, anarchy. That already happened this week. Very true. She's returned. I think. Professor, you're muted. Thank you. Everybody in our neighborhood has been complaining about our gotten everybody about our lack of spectrum, service and Internet going down. So we have a good router. Know. Okay. So let me share again. Okay. Yeah, I could tell something was going wrong because you're a quarterly GDP, Robin? Yes. Oh, court quarterly GDP was when I cut out. So this ONE? Yep. Yep. Right there. Okay. Sorry. Did I say anything about it? Think about it. While you mentioned how it's like it's it's not really how much it is produced in that quarter. It's what would be produced now quarter assuming it's done over a year, basically. Okay. Great. Thank you. All right. Let me get you guys Craig over here. Alright. Because I, I'd started going to the next slide and then I noticed that it wasn't. Progressing on share. Okay, now, few principles to note. And now it's telling me that my Internet connection is unstable. First of all, transferring ownership does not represent the production of goods and services. So the value is not counted as GDP. So if I sell my house to somebody else, the value that house not carries GDP because my house was produced years ago. Okay? Also if I sell stocks, bonds, stocks and bonds are simply ownership of shares in the company. That that company represents, factories and all that stuff and that was produced before. So that does not count as GDP. However, if in transferring ownership, a real estate agent or a stockbroker, et cetera, helps you with the sail and they earn a commission. There. Commission is counted in GDP because they render to service a new service, which is transferring the ownership from person to person B. K. Now also a third is if the original production of a good or good typically and its sale overlaps, different years. Count only the value-added each year. Ok, so you could think of an example that wine is produced in this year partly, but it's still sitting in barrels. And then next year, you know, there's some more value added. You want the value added that happening each year. And I'll give you some more examples on this shortly. Ok, and here in fact is an example. Alright, this is out of the questions from the back of the book. Okay? So suppose that this M, Minnesota logs, harvested logs but no inputs from other countries from its property in northern Minnesota, sold these logs to the lumber company for 1500. The lumber company cut and plane the logs into lumber than the lumber company sold the lumber for $4 thousand to the furniture company. Than the furniture company use the lumber to produce a 100 tables that is sold to customers for $70 each. Okay, so let's fill out this table to figure out who's value-added was there, and then be able to answer these questions. Alright, so the first question is calculating these things for each company. Alright? So we have the log company which has revenue of 50-100. They have that we just assume for simplicity, they didn't purchase inputs from anybody. That means their value added is 50-100. Mm. Then we have the lumber company, which sold its lumber for $4 thousand. But it bought the cut the logs from the logging company. So that's why we subtract 1500. So their value added is 2500. Then the furniture company sells its furniture. It's 100 tables for $70 a piece. So it revenue is 7 thousand. Okay. It subtracts the amount. Lumber that it bought from the lumber company. And so it's value-added is 3 thousand. So we've calculated value-added all along the way there. And if you see how that adds up and the final column, notice that adds up to the revenue of the final good company, which is the furniture company. Alright? So suppose that all of these tracts actions took place in 2016. How much did GDP increased because of these transactions? So you can just call out a number, put it in the chat. 7 thousand. That's right. Yes. So the answer there is 7 thousand because that's the amount or the final good. Alright. Now suppose instead that the logs were harvested in October 2016 and it's sold to the lumber company in December 2016. Then the lumber company sold olive finished lumber to the furniture company in 2017. And then the furniture company sold all those tables during the rest of 2017. How much to GDP increase in 2016 and in 2017? Because at these transactions that are now spread over two years. Well, 2016, what was the production that occurred there? Well, it was the logs. Okay. That's basically the only part of this production process that occurred in 2016 and they sold those logs to the lumber company. And then a 2017. We have the rest of the transaction. If you add up all of those numbers where you get 5,500. So that total 7 thousand in this case is spread across two years. Getting questions. Okay? So we've now defined GAAP and we've added a final goods or value added production. We're now going to talk about two other ways to out of GDP at this. Next way is particularly important. It's going to be a key part of the Keynesian model that we do in the last third of the course. Okay? We added up either final goods or value-added across firms. And it turns out there are second, third ways to measure GDP, either by expenditures or by income. Or we're going to demonstrate the GDP, which remember is the market value production is, and of course, final goods production, all that is actually equal to expenditures and it's equal to income. So all three of those things are going to be equal. So let's talk about the expenditure method for measuring GDP. We're going to divide the users of the final goods and services into four categories. Households, firms, government, and foreign sector. Alright? We're going to then talk about spending by each an order and that it's going to be consumption, which we designate with a capital C investment, which we designate with a capital I. Government purchases, capital G and net exports, NX and A key. So here are, this is going to be, households are going to do this spending. Firms are going to do this investment spending. The government, that's my abbreviation for government, is going to do with the G. And the foreign sector is going to be involved in the net exports. Okay? And this GDP spending identity is something that you're going to use over and over in this class. Alright? So let's talk about the various components. Alright, first we'll talk about household spending consumption, right? There are three types of consumption, broad classes of consumption. There are durable goods. These are cars, computers, furniture, piece are things that last a while. Second is non durable goods. These are things like food, clothing, gasoline, et cetera here. Okay. Even though clothing last kind of a wild, they decided that really isn't like a durable good, like a car. So that's why clothing is non durable even though obviously clothing we keep for awhile, it just it's categorized as non durable. And then the third category is services. And examples of this are medical care, haircuts, housing services, and housing services. When the National Peace or the National Income and Product Accounts, they certainly would count the services you get from renting a house. Okay, we're renting an apartment. They also count by implicitly estimating the services you get from a house you own. And that's actually included in services. Alright? So includes the implicit services from a house you own as though you were renting it to yourself. This is the way to think about it. That's how they counted because they don't want this big difference according to whether people are renting something from somebody else versus owning their own house because they're getting such a big service from it. Okay, now, important, okay, purchases of new homes are not counted as consumption. They're going to be counted as investment, right? Just there, so terrible that government thinks that it's better to count them as investment like a factory. But then of course, indirectly, party or consumption is the services you get from that house that you own. But that's down. That's year after year after year. And K second category member was I, that's what firms are doing. Me switch car. Okay. There are three types of investment, okay? The first is we call business fixed investment. Okay? Examples are factories, equipment. The second category is what's called residential investment. Incentives. Underline this he can see residential investment and this is new houses, apartment buildings. Okay? And just to distinguish up here and business fixed investment, this would be like off if it's an office building, it's an business fixed investment. If it's an apartment building where people live, then that's in residential investment. Okay? The third category is inventory investment. And what do we mean there? If a firm actually let me, let me define it first. Okay? This is, oops. This is the change in stocks, goods at businesses. Okay, so if a firm produces a good and doesn't sell it, it gets added to inventory. So here it would be, so for example, this would be inventory investment. Two ways to think about it. This would be say, say let's just take cars. The number of cars at the dealer on say, the end of the year, December 31st, 2020 minus the number of cars. Oops, sorry. That were there on December 31st, 2019. So inventory investment is the change over the year. Say for example, if we're looking at the annual inventory investment in the number of cars sitting at dealer lots. In general. Let me just add this up here. Inventory investment for a firm will equal its production minus its cycles. Okay? That'll just add up two, also two, but I gave you at the bottom, those are just two different ways of looking at the same thing. If a firm produces more than it sells, then it will have positive inventory investment. If it produces less than it sells, it'll have negative inventory investment. All right? What am I doing here? Okay? I'm government purchases. Okay? Examples are same, fighter jets, roads, salaries of teachers. Anything that the government purchases or pay somebody to do for them. Alright? Now note G does not include what are called transfer payments or interest on government debt. Okay, so it does not include transfer payments or interest on the government debt. Transfer payments are things like Social Security payments, unemployment compensation, things like that. How do you give an example? How do you distinguish between something that's government Purchase versus a transfer payment? Because sometimes it's, you know, if you're not used to thinking about that, here's the rule of thumb. Okay? Does the government get something in return when it pays out groups? So what do I mean? They're okay. If the government buys it, sends a check to Lockheed Martin for some fighter jet. The government, it sent a check to them, but it gets something in return, it gets the fighter jet. Alright? When the state of California pays me, it gets something in return. I teach for them. Alright? So those are examples of government purchases. In contrast, when they send a check out to your grandmother for her social security, they're not getting anything in return. They're simply transferring funds to your grandmother. Alright? So that is a transfer payment. Alright? So that's the way to think about in your head. The government get something back. If it does, it's more likely to be a government purchase. If it doesn't, it's more likely to be a transfer payment. Somebody raised their hand at you. You can just speak up, Kenneth. You don't need to raise your hand. Although the stimulus payment, like they give money to the people and in return somehow they get to like, like the economy like and they don't get anything directly, return. So indirectly what they're trying to do is help people on the economy. But that's a great example. The stimulus was virtually altruists repeat units. Yes. Great question. Okay, then we have the foreign sector, alright, that's the NX, net exports, that's equal to exports minus imports. Exports are domestically produced, final goods and services that are sold abroad. Since sold to others through tuple two warranties. Imports are purchases by domestic buyers of goods and services. But those goods and services were produced abroad. Okay. So thanks to note on this is some imports are included. And that consumption when we add that investment and government purchases. Okay? So for example, if you buy a car that was produced in Japan or China, okay, it's going to show up and consumption expenditures, it's going to show up in the sea. But that's not part of US GDP because it wasn't produced here. So that's why that car needs to be subtracted out from net exports. We subtract the imports. That's also true if, if a company buys a computer that was produced somewhere else, domestic company, alright, that's going to show up in their investment. So it's in the eye. But that shouldn't recounts GDP. So that's why we subtract it in terms of imports. Similarly, we export a number up, that's alright. Those were produced here. They're not foreign or spot them, so they're not going to show up in domestic consumption C, They're not going to sharpen domestic investment, ie, they're not going to show up and gene. But we want to count them as an export. It stuff. It's be foreigners who bought. So that's why they come with a positive sign because they were produce within our borders. Alright? So net exports, ads are exports. Make sure all the spending adds up to GDP, but it subtracts the imports, since that's not part of GDP, but it's counted in either senior I or G If we import it. So then we've got it, balance it off with a negative. Okay, so to recap, consumption is done by households. This is food, clothes, haircuts, new cars, investment by business firms, new factories and equipment. Remember new houses. This is the one that's tricky because you might think that that should be in consumption, but it's not, it's an investment. Increases in inventory stocks was also the inventory investment. Government purchases or new school buildings, new military hardware salaries and soldiers and government officials. And net exports or exports minus imports is the foreign sector and export that. Examples are exporting manufactured goods, legal or financial services provided by domestic residents to foreigners. Those are just some of the examples. Ok. So that's behind the C plus I plus G plus net exports. Alright, let's do a little bit of practice. Suppose a construction company builds 20 new homes this year, each selling for $1.20 or purchase by families. None has purchased by other firms. Government are foreigners. How is this production and spending counted this year? Let's see if I can get this pull up. Let me go. Huh? Good. Okay. So how is this counted in production spending this year? In each case I'm letting you do meets GDP is 20 no matter what in this case. But then where do you count the rest of it? To make a quick decision? 54321. Ok, 79% remembered that new homes are not counted as consumption, are counted as investment. All right, so the people who answered consumption or even, I'm not even sure, government spending. You read the question carefully and remember that new homes are counted as investment spending. So it should be 20 for GDP and 24 investment. That's where it shows up as an expenditure to. Okay. Let's do a second practice problem. This isn't going to be pulling because I just want you to do the numbers. All right, so forward produces 20 new cars a share in the US, each selling for $1. For simplicity, consumers purchase ten cars, rental car agencies purchased six cars. Government purchases to cars, and foreigners purchase two cards. How is this production and spending counted the shear, okay? So GDP is 20. How are we going to count the rest of it? So it does consumption increase at all? By you can you can yell out to yes, by how much? Ten, yes. How about investment? Six? And government to and net exports to, okay? What this illustrates is that spending can occur in multiple categories for one particular good. All of these various entities, consumption. Can, households, firms, government and foreigners tend to buy cars, all right, so we can distribute them across all of those. And they should add up. So C plus I plus G plus net exports should add up to GDP. Spending practice problem 34 produces 15 new cars this year in the US, each selling for $1. Consumers purchase ten cars. Rental car agencies purchase six Karger's ever to, foreigners purchase two cars. No cars are important. Assumption, what is the missing element? And with this, how is production and spending counted this year? Alright? So we should start with the simple one. What is, what is GDP this year? 15? Yes. Okay. What is consumption? Ten, K investment, six, government spending two. And foreigners to. But if you look at this, it's not adding up. And I've said that no cars are important. So I could see why you thought that we were imports bent, but look at that line that says, no cars are important. So what is missing? Because these aren't adding up because the bottom is 20 imagery from last year, Good job, good into its inventory. Ok. Inventory investment. And as Linda said, left over her. Cars from last year were sold. They sold more than they produce. Remember how we said inventory investment is production minus sales. So that means that inventory investment was equal to, what am I trying to do was equal to minus five, right? Because they produce 15, but they sold 20. So the way we get that to add up is remember that one of the categories of investment and inventory investment. So once we account for what was happening there, total investment is only one. K. They still sold those six cars to the rental car agencies. But the own Fords inventory investment was minus five. Okay. Alright. So actually, I think I explained that. Okay. Yes. So inventory to I fit it all here. Okay. I had extra sheets just in case. Alright, spending practice problem for, because it's really good to have a lot of practice. Suppose a car with a market value of 20 thousand is produced in 2020, but is sold to a consumer in 2021. How does this show up in GDP and in expenditure categories? Okay? So we know it was produced in 20 thousand in 2020. So we know that GDP. Was 20 thousand there. And we know that consumption was 20 thousand in 2021. But the contribution to GDP was 0 because they didn't produce another car. Alright, because we're just looking at this particular car. So how do we make this stuff add up? So I think somebody art yes, it is in IE. And it's because inventory investment was 20 thousand because they produced it and he didn't sell it. Ok. But wait, we need everything to add up the net in 2021. How do we get things to add up in 2021 for that car? We're going to yes. Minus 20 thousand. Alright. We've got everything balancing. I ask, What do you mean by ad out? Okay. Because we kinda just, yes, like there's 20 thousand was set o because we know that GDP has to equal C plus I plus G plus net exports in every period. Ok? So in 2020, I know that GDP has 20 thousand because the car was produce then. So that means that C plus I plus G plus net exports have to add up to 20 thousand. And the way we make that happen is with that inventory investment, okay? The next year, the car wasn't produce, so GDP is 0. So that means that C plus I plus G plus net exports have to add up to 0 for this particular car. And the way we get that is the consumption did go up by 20 thousand because consumers bought that car. But inventory investment when DEC was negative at minus 20 thousand because they sold that car out of inventory. So there was one less car on the dealer lot in that year. Okay, great. Good question. Alright, spending practice problem five. Let's try to do this real quickly for produces 50 new cars this year in the US, it's selling for $1. Consumers purchase ten rental car agencies. So, so let's put this. We've got our 15, we've got our ten for consumers. We've got six for those rental car agencies, government too, and foreigners purchase to inventory investment was 0. What is the missing element here and how its production and spending counted this year. So what's the missing element? Yes, it's imports. And what did imports have been? There must have been five. So then that means that net exports have to be two minus $0.05. Net exports are exports. Minus imports. Okay? So this is all adding up this called National Income and Product accounting. If you like accounting, take Econ for or the one over at Grady, Because you're always trying to get things to balance out. Alright. So I will stop there and we'll continue on Monday. So have a great weekend. Take N professor. Why? England, it's worrying. X-men was x2 0 inventory. In that particular case. It's because I had assumed that I assume that inventory investment Missouri. So this time I was I remember in the previous case, I assume there were no imports. Must have an inventory investment. Whereas in this case now in states suppose that inventory investment was 0, but I didn't make any assumption on imports. So then you had to figure out Am and imports must have been equal to phi. Okay, got it. Thank you. You're welcome, professor. So even if there's things that are sold, do we count them in the GDP of day that day and not the dedication? Exactly. Exactly. And that's what that practice problem. Which one do we do? Yes. Practice problem or that's exactly the point that we're illustrating their. Okay, Thank You. See if I can save this chat. Professor. Didn't note something you write on during class to post them anywhere? No, sorry. So you would have to look at the video just because it's better if it's live. The reason I write is so that I'm not just reading too quickly off of PowerPoints. Okay. I used, typically, they're getting really quick. I rendering the video now, i i lecturing sometime in the next hour I will get an email saying that this video is ready to post. But then I wait till after, till the next lecture. Videos ready to post, which is usually within an hour after the next lecture. So I'm, I typically post the videos sometime between noon and 13. Okay. So so and you know, you could just kind of zip over there and if you didn't quite get something written down, I I tried to leave enough time for that, but given that we had to cut out on the internet, I was I was going a little bit more speedily than I usually would because I know that you guys can see it in the other part. Thank you. Professor, Just a quick question. Just wanted to check what government bailouts like bailing out the airline industry. That would be considered a transfer payment rate. That's a transport because the airline industry is not giving free flights to politicians in return. That's the way to think about it. Alright, thank you. Keep Thank you. Take care.