 Why? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mm-hm. Yeah. Hi Professor Harry, question here. So the homework problems. Yeah, it's, I can calculate how many decimal points to. And I try to give a range so that rounding isn't a problem. Typically, burst decimal points. So 10.1. It's usually unless I say otherwise. Legal entity. Usually a Yeah. Thank you. You're welcome. Kind accidently have I as I say, I try to do ranges and sometimes people do things with an approximation formula, persisting accurate formula, it will be slightly different. So I always try to make rages. I beg. Alright. Extra time. I rearranged habits. I'm lotsa picture, it's still real face or at least nice background. Okay. So I just wanted to start quickly with just a few announcements so that, you know, things that we've added to the website. The first thing is that I have posted the red sharp link. So I didn't know what red show was. It's kind of new this year. That is near the bottom of the canvas. Homepage became presumably you guys know, but the red shopping kids. Second, I posted discussion section questions. That's also near the bottom of the page. As you know, the first discussion section small occurred later today. And the CBA starting up for next week on SNL. I think eight is when they end. And often the TAs will go over these, at least some of these questions in class or use it to formulate their review materials. So those questions are mostly for people who are planning to go to discussion sections. However, you can obviously work on them on your own. If you want to know about answers, you should write a discussion section. And if it's not covered in discussion section, then you can go to office hours. But please do not email people asking for answers to the discussion section questions, okay? Because it's, cuz it just becomes too burdensome to have that many people emailing. So go to discussion section or go to office hours for that. Third, I posted some FAQs about class structure because I was seeing that number them coming up in the class email. So just just to clarify some things that, that numerous people had questions on nots near the top. It's one of the top things in a Canvas page. The fourth is yes. Email. Okay, a lot of people are forgetting to ask a question about this class. This is the email to youth. Do not use the Canvas email, remember Slide three. And so most of you do a canvas one or it's my e-mail. You will here, you will get a response for me if you're lucky, that says, look, it's like dreams solace. Okay? Say you all email should go to the class account. Alright? And then the fifth thing is homeworks. Ok? And just as background, remember that the first midterm is a week from tomorrow in the evening, okay? And because of that, that we've had sort of these bits and pieces of homework because I want to make sure that you have time to work on parts. And so I was doing extra while we're recovering what Leonard by look at it's even an blink. Alright. A week from this Thursday, yes, is the first midterm. So the homeworks so there are two homeworks due tomorrow evening at 1159, alright? And that's 1A and 1B. Alright. Then we wanted to give you practice uploading something to great scope, but we wanted to give you a little extra time. So that homework is due next Monday night, because remember next Monday is a holiday. Alright, I have now also posted on the homework for chapter 18. We're going to begin chapter 18 today. That's tricky because that home was so remember the midterm is a week from this Thursday in the evening. I want you to be able to go to discussion sections before you have to turn that homework. So that homework is due at 11:59 PM and no late submissions by the way, until we get to get those homeworks submitted, even if they're partial. That gets you points. At 1159 a week from today on Wednesday, and six minutes later had 01:05 AM and the warning. California time. You'll be able to see all the answers. Alright, so that's why I wanted to make it due Wednesday night so people can see the answers and have Thursday to kinda looked out over for, for K12. Alright. Any questions on that? Where do we get the slides that have notes on it? They're all on the Canvas page. Lectures. I Senate. Maybe you weren't registered. Somebody just asked that. I sent all of the slides are on the Canvas page. Alright. Everytime I do slide, I put them up there in advance. You should be able to download them. Alright. Any other questions? Craig? I don't by the way, the lecture notes are there the Preet than the ones where the type began? But all the handwriting I do. You're supposed to write down as you're watching the video or pure in-class. And with the videos, it's just easy to find the page seven. Okay. All right. So let's start Chapter 18. And it's perfect because we're not going to talk about a little bit later because we're saving the current events per later because I want to get to the main material. But the inflation report came out for last year, came out this morning, and we'll talk about that shortly. But let's talk about measuring price level and inflation, alright? So prices tend to rise over time. And that creates a lot of difficulties comparing dollar values at two points in time, doing long-term planning. And so in this chapter we're going to discuss how to measure the price level and inflation. You saw a little bit of this already in the previous chapter when we talked about the GDP deflator, because that's an alternative measure of the price level. How to adjust for inflation and the link between inflation and interest rates. Pink. So by the end of this chapter, you'll be able to construct a CPI Consumer Price Index and calculate the inflation rate from it. You will understand how to adjust nominal amounts for the effects of inflation. You'll understand some biases in the official measure of inflation. You'll know some examples of hyperinflations and the distinction between real and nominal interest rates and what their relationship is. Back here to Dhaka, I forgot about that. We hadn't finished the last slide. I had forgotten that. Yes. Thank you. Let me stop right here and bring up that other slide. Comment. This current here. Alright, and if we want to go to the very end, you're right. I was so busy putting up the homework for the inflation. I already had inflation on my mind. Thank you very much to market. Okay. This was we were talking about the different types of unemployment. And if I recall any arc from current, if I recall, we had talked a little bit about frictional, right? Because we had said that that tends to be higher when the labor force is younger. Is that correct? Had we talked about that? We can thank you. Because e We were at a slightly different point in the 11 o'clock lecture. And what's my forgotten? I should have gone back and looked at the videos so that I could remember. Alright, so and it also depends on unemployment compensation. Okay? So this is the least costly type of unemployment. Higher when the labor force is younger. Because as I explained, younger people tend to change jobs a lot. And so they spend a little bit more time and unemployment than, than more mature workers because they're looking for good match on their job. And it's higher. When unemployment compensation is more generous, people will take longer to find the perfect job if they have some income coming in. Modern unemployed. Hey, the second type is structural. This is long-term or chronic unemployment. It can be due to a lack of skills, language barriers, discrimination, skill mismatch, and labor market distortions and things like that. So for example, this is, suppose that there is just a switch in the types her skills demanded. Hey, for example, suppose that somebody in the seventies was a really good typist, Hamburg dense occupation that Ben was called secretary. Alright. And then with the advent of word, word processors and things like that, people just didn't need secretaries because they could type their own sorts of things on word processor. And that person might become unemployed because they have, you know, they might be one of the fastest typers, but that's just not as much in demand. Another example is a minimal wage. If the minimum wage is that higher than a low skilled person's marginal product? Basically, the government is saying that anybody who's productivity is below this level isn't allowed to work. And that's because firms are not allowed to pay them below that minimum wage. If somebody's contribution to the profits of the firm are less than what the minimum wages. They're not going to be hired because firms are trying to make profits. And then there are all these other ones such as discrimination, language barriers and those sorts of things. So those are examples of why you might have structural unemployment. And just people say badly educated and have a lack of skills is a big part. And then finally, cyclical unemployment. This is the type of unemployment that occurred during recessions. Okay? So we're going to start with study this in much more detail in the last third of the class. In general, during an economic expansion when, when the economy is near what we call full employment, there wouldn't be any cyclical unemployment. But however, if you are in recession and unemployment rate tends to go up. And that's called cyclical unemployment. And as I said, we'll talk about that third one in much more detail later. But that's why I want to cover it here, because we will return to that issue later. Alright. Any questions? Alright, so back to chapter each. So thank you for reminding me that I hadn't options. That's like something has some important things on it. Oops, I don't want that. Like RSVP announcements. I get that I already Huh? Okay. I'm starch. And once again need to shrink or expand the chirps. Okay. All right, so let's go to where we were at, all of the eggs, canada. All the things that you're going to learn in this chapter. Alright, so let's start with the first 1. First of all, let's just do a quick review of growth rates and percent chain. Most people know this, but, but I've noticed that there's a key group in each class that needs a little brush up on growth rates and percent changes and we use these a lot. So that's why I want to make sure everybody's on the same page. So let's suppose y, which could be real GDP or it could be price level, whatever it is. We're going to let y, y, little Sarah sub, subscript 0, just being devalued that year 0. So this could be say, a 100. And then we're going to yet let y subscript one b, the value of this variable one-year once. So this could be say, a 110. Alright? So if we want to know the growth rate of Y from year 0 to year one, then that's given by Y one minus Y is 0 divided by 0. That was your starting week. Now another way to write that is simply to write, to split up that difference of Y one over Y 0. And then you note that Minus Y 0 over Y 0 is just minus one K. So that's where you get your one error. And so for example, if y was equal to 602020 and it was equal to 65 in 2021, then the growth rate is simply 65 minus 60 equals 60, or five over 60 equals 0.083 k. That's the growth rate. Alternatively, we can just say 65 or 60 minus one, and we get the same 0.083. We're just doing the same thing, just a different way of writing it. Alright. Now offer was date the growth rate in percentage terms. All we do is multiply by a 100. So we take that 0.083, you multiply by a 100 and that equals 8.3%. Said only do arithmetic growth rate and the percentage growth rates that you multiply by a 100%. Alright? Now we can also talk about growth factors and these are going to be important when we do compounding and things like that. So we just saw that the growth rate, I'm writing it that second way of y is just y, y1, the value in year one divided by the value at year 0 minus one. We're looking for that. Now. In many cases we will work directly with the ply growth factor, which is just Y one over Y 0. So in this one we don't subtract the one. Okay? So in this case, why the growth factor between year 0 and year one is just 65 over 60, which is equal to 1.083. Ok. Now, it's useful to work with the factor some time because when we talk about compounding, if you've ever seen interest rate compounding, or we're going to talk about this in detail right after these initial chapter 18 slides. You multiply one plus that return or one plus the growth in order to compound. So one way to think about this is suppose that do you have any value that's starting, and you say that the growth rate of output was 8.3%. Then you would just, That means you're multiplying the initial, say, output, real output by 1.083 to get what output wasn't Y1, Alright, so for example, if this were a 100, actually, yeah, that's five times 1.083. That would mean that in year one, this would be y one would be equal to a 108. Alright, so suppose US dollar values to shelf. It's just a question of just applying that whole factor with which says you have your initial part plus whatever additional growth rate that areas. So that's why you have the one plus 0.083. And in, as you have already seen, probably in homework. When I asked you questions, I'll say Please state and present terms or please state in whatever. Ok. So I always tried to be very careful about guiding you to how to answer a question. Okay, so the consumer price index, CPI. So it's the leading way to measure the price level and to calculate the rate of inflation. It's also a useful gauge the cost of living. Alright, so it's very much related to trying to measure the cost of living. So the CPI for any period measures the costs in that period of a standard set, also known as basket of goods and services, relative to the cost of that same set of goods and services in some fixed year called the base year. Right? So it's the standard set. We're going to see, we're going to hold that constant. But then we're going to see how the cost of buying that particular set of goods has changed over time. Okay, so let's calculate the CPI for simple example. Suppose a typical household has the following monthly purchases. All it does is by hamburgers and t-shirts. 60 hamburgers and four t-shirts as typical monthly purchases. Price buy hamburgers say $5 in 2010, and a price of a t-shirt has $15. So the total cost of buying this basket, alright, this is the basket. Goods is, well, we take 60 times five to get the 300 and we take four times 15 to get the 60. And so then the total cost is 360. So these are multiplying science than I'm showing here that you're doing the product. Okay? Now let's see the prices they have to pay in 2020 for the same basket of goods they consumed in 2010. Alright? So the amount that they consumed in 2010, because we're making that the standard basket. You would always choose another year, but you've got to keep it constant for the CPI in order to make the measurement. So you still have your 60, you still have your 40 or four, sorry. Now the price per unit price of hamburgers has gone up to $7. And for simplicity, suppose that t-shirts are still $15. Well then you just multiply those and you get 420 spent on hamburgers and $60 spent on t-shirts. And the total amount is 480. So in 2010, you had to pay $360 here for this basket. In 2020, you had to pay $480 for that same basket. So let's make 2010 the base year, okay? Then we calculate the CPI for 2020 as follows. It's going to be the cost of the basket in 2020 divided by the cost of the same basket in 2010. And the reason we have 2010 here is it's the base year by assumption. Okay? So CPI then in 2020 is going to be equal to the amount that it cost you to buy that basket, which was 480 divided by 360. And that's going to be 1.33. I'm going to put an extra three. Usually, you don't need to assume a decimal places, but, but for clarity later, I'm going to keep that there. Alright. This implies that up, the up price level was 33.3% higher in 2020 relative to 2010, rupees, 2100 higher. Okay? Now here's a case. Alright, so I said the price level is 33% to 33.3% higher. How do we know that? Well, you know, just in your head, you can take CPI in 2020 divided by the CPI in 2010. That's the growth factor. Alright? You can subtract one to get the growth rate. That's how you get 0.333. And if you want and present terms, you multiply it by a 100 and that's the way you get 33.3%. Okay? So all those steps, can we get CPI cannot be negative. Good question. No, it cannot be negative. Because you never have negative prices. Oops, I just wrote over my let me erase this. Okay. That's where I was trying to fill it that in. I didn't make enough notes to myself. Okay. So it was 33.3% higher. Okay. Does the CPI, you could see why the CPI helps us compute the cost of living. The cost of living for this family, for that standard basket of hamburgers and t-shirts has gone up 33% over the decade from this example. Okay? So the CPI is an index, k, consumer price index. That's what the I stands for. All of these prices are always an index. When you're looking at the general price level. It is an index of the general level of prices. And remember that other ways to talk about general level of prices is average price levels. And other way we say it, sometimes we say aggregate price level. That means the same thing. Alright? Now note the following difference. Back in chapter 17. When calculating real GDP, we hold prices fixed and we compare quantities across different years. That is because we want to measure the change in real quantities. Holding prices fixed. That's what we were doing when we were calculating real GDP. Remember, we said we didn't want to have changes in prices interfering with us trying to figure out how much the economy grew in terms of its ability to produce real quantities. In contrast, now, when calculating the CPI, we're trying to answer a different question. We want to know how much the average price levels increase. So we hold the quantity is fixed and we compare the prices across years. So keep that in mind. And the way, you know, it's not something you just have to memorize all the is, remember what it is you're trying to do. And then that'll guide you to what you want to keep constant. Yes, quantities fixed is called the same basket. Exactly. Yi Lu. Alright, and we're keeping that basket. We had the number of hamburgers than the number of t-shirts fixed across the years. That's how we are keeping the quantities fixed. Okay? How the CPI's constructed in practice. Alright? The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which is a government statistical agency. It's BLS for short, collects detail expenditure information by serving households. It uses this information to construct the weight of each good in the basket. Or another way to think about it. How much of each good the typical household buys or in terms of fraction of their whole basket. Okay? The BLS checks prices of many goods and services each month and thousands of stores. So if you happen to see somebody hist or writing down prices might be somebody from the BLS. They're doing this all the time. When the BLS publishes the CPI, it multiplies the number by a 100. Thus the CPI we just calculated of 1.333 would be published as a 133.3 by the BLS. Okay, that's why I put that extra decimal point in there so that you can understand this. All right. Let's see two I see here, or do I say goodnight to? The CPI is always using our way of doing things in the books way of doing things. The CPI will always be one in the base year. Okay? Think of that. Why is it? Because in the base year, say 2010, you're going to compare the price of the basket of goods in 2010. The amount that you had to span divided by you had to spend for that same basket of goods in 2010, the base year. So that's obviously 360 over 360 is always going to be one, right? So in the base year, the CPI's one, or if you're looking at the BLS and you use the BLS method, it would be a 100. Okay, so it's just something you have to remember and I'm I I tried to be very careful when I ask you any questions about telling you that we're going to use one typically, but sometimes you have to look up something and it would be a 100. And it's always fine to ask a question with respect to the homework or exams if if I'm not as clear as I'm trying to be, that okay. How do we use the CPI to calculate the rate of inflation? Okay? The rate of inflation is just the percent change in the price level. Alright? So we have an index. Ok? So the CPI is a measure of the price level. So then what we want to do is suppose we have last year CPI equal to 1. Actually let me write a pure I just saw. Okay, so then what we'll do, oops, sorry. So that means we'll take CPI this year divided by cpi, say last year. Subtract one. And if we want things in percentage terms, we multiply by a 100. Right? The same formula I gave you a few slides ago for percent change. Let's apply that to this example. Say last year the CPI was 1.20. This year it's 1.272. What will do is take 1.272 divided by 1.20 minus one. That's going to give us 1.06 minus one, which equals 0.06. And then in our head we can multiply by a 100 and that implies 6% inflation. Alright? So the inflation rate, inflation rate, 6% inflation rate. If we have this for the CPI for these two years, the inflation rate is simply the percentage change. And when we calculate that, it's 6%. Notice its not 1.06% or 1, yeah. So you need to be careful and make sure you go through all the steps if you're trying to calculate the percent. So, sorry, Consumer Price Index is a measure of the general price level. It calculates the cost of a market basket of goods relative to some base year. It's constructed by the BLS. And it's used to calculate inflation using the percent change in the index. So quite straightforward for that simple example, right? Okay, let's do a practice problem. Suppose that the no prices change between 2010 and 20-20, but that are typical family bought 20% more hamburgers and 20% more t-shirts. This means that the CPI would be, let me see if I pull will work today just to sex. So don't don't answer. Yes, pulse working. Alright. So go ahead and answer. 543. 21. Alright. Okay, so 72%, got it right, that it's unchanged in 20-20, I'm surprised that posted yeah, 30%. At the other. Remember that you have to hold the basket, the saint, the quantities the same. Alright? So just because the family buys more burgers and more t-shirts, you don't want that to shop in the price level because there it's obviously not a change in prices. And so you would be making a mistake if you claim that there was inflation in this economy or deflation as some of the people thought. Simply because the quantities that family consumed went up, but not because the prices. But the prices didn't go up. So the correct answer is C. Shrink that. Okay? And it's because prices did not change. Prices don't change. Cpi can't go up. Alright? Some inflation relationships and terminology. Yes, GDP would increase. That's right. Alright. If the inflation rate is positive, then the price levels rise it, okay? Do you have a positive present change? It means something is growing. If the inflation rate is negative, k, So inflation rates can be negative. The price index itself, which is the level, can't be negative. But an inflation rate which is the percent change in that, can be negative. If the inflation rate is negative, then that price level is falling. Extremely high inflation, more than 50% per month is called hyper inflation. A little bit later we will talk about some of those examples of countries that have had hyperinflation. Another important concept because you will see it in the financial press and in fact, I suspect it's going to be discussed an article, the current event that came up today, but that I'll cover a little bit later is the idea of the core rate of inflation. So core, and look for that. I think one of the, some of the homework problems might ask you just the rate of inflation, some Ashley about the core rate of inflation. So pay attention to that. That's the rate of increase of all prices except energy and food. So energy in food are excluded. So what they do is, you know, how we talked about that basket of goods. Now most people buy energy and food. So for the regular CPI, those would be in that basket. But for the core CPI, they take energy and food out of that basket and compute the price level with the other goods there. Alright. Why do they do this? This is just an alternative measure. It's not sort of the headline measure, but they usually will talk about this. Energy and food prices tend to be volatile from month to month. So people often watch core inflation when trying to determine sorted the trends and inflation. Alright? You don't want to say that inflation is going to continue to be really high just because it jumped up one month because I, gasoline prices went up or because food prices went up temporarily. Alright, so that's a bunch of useful terminology. Alright, so we have now learned how to construct CPI and calculate the inflation rate. Now let's talk about how to use these sorts of things to adjust nominal quantities for the effects of inflation. Alright? So adjusting for inflation. When we adjust for inflation, we are trying to eliminate the effects of price changes. Okay, now we use price indices such as the CPI to convert a nominal quantity to a real quantity. Ok? In general, remember from last time when we talked about GDP, well, that relationship I gave you as more general. You can, if you have a nominal amount that will equal the real amount times the price level. And remember we use P as an indicator of the price level. Ok. Now note that the real amount uses the same base shares the price level index, alright? So if you change the base year, the price index, the real amount will have a different. We share that and we'll do some examples so that you can see. Now for easier interpretation, we typically want to use the current year or recent year as the reference here. Now this is different. The book doesn't teach you how to do this. And so given the way the book tie you, if you went out and got a job and they said, Oh, I want to, I want to adjust for, suppose your bosses, I want to adjust for the effects of inflation. Can you compare what's going on in terms of this year sales versus sales ten years ago. I want you to adjust that for inflation. If you did with the book said, you would report to your boss. The dollar value was actually 1982 to 84 because that's the current base year for the CPI. And your boss would say, who cares about 1982 to 84, you weren't even born then I want to know what they are in this year scholars, all right, and so that's what I'm going to teach you. And so that's why it's a little bit different from the book. It's just they didn't take the extra step. Okay, so here's an example adjusting for inflation. So these are actual numbers. In the US median household income was approximately 30 thousand in 199071,019. So I'm using 2019 just because 20-20 was so weird and we don't have the numbers yet anyway. Okay. So a question me, policymakers want to ask is, did income rise in real terms, median household income? I can the current median income by more goods down because that, remember, we're talking about the cost of living and how much, how many goods you can buy with those dollars somebody gives you an income. So we need to adjust nominal income for purchasing power. So that's another way to say, adjusts for inflation. We want adjusted for purchasing power were ultimately try and say, how many goods can you buy given the typical spending patterns. All right, and we use the CPI to do this. Okay? So we've got our 30 thousand 990s versus 71,019. We want to figure out if the real income was higher in 2019. Okay? Now, I'm going to give you an example here where the base year is 2010. Okay? So you can already see that 2 thousand tents likely Beijing, because remember, the CPI is going to be one in the base year. Alright? In 990s, the base, sorry, the CPI has 0.6 and in 2019 it was 1.17. All right, now we want to convert that 30 thousand from 19 $90 to $2090 to compare real income or purchasing power. Right? Now, a little bit of an analogy, ratios of CPIs, cuz that's what we're going to use. Ratios of indexes can be use like an exchange rate base there that's going to tell us how many $2019 does it take to equal one? 990s dollar. Okay. If we think about units like you do in your science classes when you're say converting feet to meters or whatever, you know, you have all of those units and you cancel them. Cpi in 2019 over CPI 990s. What is that? Well, remember, how did we construct the CPI? Remember it was the mount you had to spend in say, 2019 divided by the amount that you had to spend in dollars here in 2010, the base year. So that numerators $2019 per $2010. The denominator, which is the CPI 990s, is simply 990s dollars divided by $2010. Because the way we got that CPI is for that fixed basket of goods. We said how much do we have to spend in 990s for that? And we divided that by the amount we had to spend in 2010. That was how we calculate the CPI couple slides ago. Alright, we'll notice the 2010 cancels. So this is what the book forgets to do so that we can do this direct conversion of 9090 to 2019. Okay? So last term gets us $2019 per 990s our okay. So lets plug our numbers in 1.17, which is the CPI in 2019, divided by 0.6. Alright, so I took this and I divide it back in the 1's cancel. We didn't need those in there anyway. Alright? And that's equal to 1.95. That means, that implies prices. We're 95% higher in 2019 than in 1990. Another way to say it is u and d. It would take a $1.95 in $2019 to be able to buy as much as $1 in 990s. Okay. So let's. We want to take 30 thousand and turn into $2019. All we have to do is take that 30 thousand from 2019. And we're going to multiply it by this factor. That converts 990s dollars to $2019. So that's going to give us 30 thousand times 1.95. And that is going to give us 58,500. What we've stated there. Let me change the color. This is 1990, median income stated in $2019. This is adjusted for inflation. So even though 2010 was the base year for CPI, just taking the ratio of the two years that I wanted to compare that weren't the base year. I'm able to put things in the dollar of any year I want. I can take any starting year and convert it to a new year. So remember why we're doing this? We wanted to answer the question, did real household income rise from 1990 to 2019? What's the answer? Yes. Because the real income, this is real adjusted for inflation. Okay. With 58,500 into it wasn't 19. Let us direct compare to the $71,019, obviously, because that was phenomenal. Alright, so the answer to our question is, yes, income, real income increased. So I showed you all the thinking that goes into this. For once you're applying, it becomes much easier. Alright, let's see. You don't have enough time to do this. So what we'll do on friday is we'll kind of review that slightly. And then we will do a bunch of questions on this kind of inflation adjustment and then continue. Okay? Alright. Any questions? Can I repeat the real incumbent? Certainly. Ok. What we're trying to do, it was just like when we were talking about Real GDP. Remember, we wanted to see of real GDP had grown over time. We're doing that here with income. And in this case just household income. And We want to see if real income has grown over time. To do that, though, we have to take out the effects of price changes or take out the effects of inflation. And in this, the CPI is the typical way you do that. And certainly in this chapter we're talking about the CPI. So the CPI, because we've computed it, CPI is measuring simply changes in prices over time. So that's why we can use this index as a factor to convert nominal things to real things. So let's go back to this. Because remember this nominal amount equals real amount times the price level. Alright? So what I'm doing is taking a real amount. I want the real amount, so I take that nominal amount and divide by the price level. But I did one extra step because I didn't want it stated in $2010, which happened to be the base year. I wanted to put in current dollars. So I just showed you how we can take the ratio to do that. So I recommend look, reading the textbook, so you should be reading along with the textbook. I recommend reading how the textbook does it. Where they just put everything into one base year. And then realizing that what I did was simply do the second step, which was, we don't want to think about this in 2010 where we have to convert everything to 2010. I want to instead convert everything to 2019 because we understand $2019 better because they're more recent. We have a better feel for that. 2 thousand. It could be the base your good question. But when you go to the PLS and you look at their CPI, they're not going to show you the CPI for 2019, the base year. So typically when you need to do to adjust for inflation, have to go and take what the BLS gave you. And they're going to use a different base year. And so what I've shown you is it doesn't matter what base year they use. All you have to do is take ratios and you can, you can make any base year you want. Okay. In terms of how you what what kind of dollars you put the now $58,500 is. So let me go to that page. Whoop it. Dadadadada. This thing is and 990s, median income stated in $2019. Okay. So it's it's not the nominal amount, 2019. We've taken the nominal amount from 1990, that 30 thousand and we said, how many dollars would you need in 20192 by that same basket, given what's happened to 2019 prices. And then we compare that to 1969 or 19. We compared that to 69 thousand. Okay. Which was the nominal amount. But then since we're using $2019, it can be like the real amount. Okay? Alright, so what content will do more of this on Friday? And I do recommend looking at that part in the textbook on adjusting for inflation a little bit. Because then it, it'll, I think it'll help you be clear with their simple case. And then we'll understand the extra step that I took care of my professor, I guess. Oh, oh, okay, I gotta go to the next lecture. So that's why I married him.