 Valerie A Ramey: Morning everyone How are you doing, Valerie A Ramey: This is my first time teaching a large undergrad class online. I had a great time teaching the graduate students last fall. One of them is several them are here and that went well. But being able to see so many people is really something. Valerie A Ramey: So we'll wait a little bit as people join Get started. Valerie A Ramey: Actually, we can get started quickly just can be a TA A's and us who are here. So I see Stephen ye and Chen fan is there, are there any other teams are you is your Valerie A Ramey: Come will be attending okay great has made a group chat. Good. All right. Well, welcome to econ three Valerie A Ramey: Online and this brave new world of ours. Somehow, I thought I would be back to in class teaching. By this time, I suspect you thought you would be back in class as well but Valerie A Ramey: We were actually doing pretty pretty good learning by doing. And, and I think we are able to make the online format work in fact for the grad students. Of course it was. There were only 12 students in there but um Valerie A Ramey: It was, it was my best experience ever teaching. Part of it was just a particularly good group but but we were so interactive and I'm hoping we can get some of that here. I know it's hard in a large class but Valerie A Ramey: I'm hoping to make this an engaging class, despite the fact that we all live in little squares now. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so what I'll start doing is just going over the syllabus and you should you can interrupt me at any point just turn off your turn on your audio and you can ask me questions, loud. You can also ask questions in the chat. Valerie A Ramey: We have Valerie A Ramey: Several the TH AND UNDERGRADUATE instructional assistance to helping us with the chat. Okay. All right. So what I'm going to do moving over because I write some time some slides, although not as I will write as much in the first lecture. Yixuan Li: Simply because Valerie A Ramey: Most of the information is already on the slides, but a lot of times I will write it. So I am going to share open up my laptop by iPad. Valerie A Ramey: And Valerie A Ramey: Share the screen. Just a sec. Valerie A Ramey: All right, I'm that one up and let me just do a quick screen share Valerie A Ramey: Screen mirror Good. Valerie A Ramey: That work. That's always good. Valerie A Ramey: And I'm not sure what this other stuff is. Okay. So, can we open it in PowerPoint. Real quickly. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Can everybody see the Valerie A Ramey: Let me get your, your faces up here. Valerie A Ramey: See if small fraction of you, although not that many. Okay. So Steve, everybody is everybody seen that, fine. Okay, good. And the first thing I want to say is that when I was setting up the Canvas course. Valerie A Ramey: I somehow I thought I'd uploaded the new syllabus, but it looked like the old solicits there and somebody alerted me to that because the midterm date was different. Valerie A Ramey: And I just wanted to make sure you double check that you have the winter 2021 syllabus, not the winter 2020 syllabus, because there are some key differences in those are right. So, Okay. Be Valerie A Ramey: Want to do this. I'm trying to figure out how to see you, but also see my notes on this. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Somehow it's just a sec be Valerie A Ramey: There. That's what I want. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so this is back principles macroeconomics, it's the second part of our introduction series, the econ one in Econ three Valerie A Ramey: Some people do econ econ to an econ three majors skip econ to because they'll see a lot of those details in the intermediate classes, but so this is just a follow on and we're going to build on some of the things that you learned in Econ one, but we're going to Valerie A Ramey: Talk about very different things. And in particular, macroeconomics, rather than micro economics. Valerie A Ramey: The Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so this is not usual but all information. The syllabus is tentative usually Valerie A Ramey: sell-by for the most part are set in stone, particularly grading and all those sorts of things. But we've got to be flexible and nimble in this coven era, and I think Valerie A Ramey: What we'll end up in the classes, very close to what is on the syllabus, but with things changing. There's always a chance that we need to change a few of the parameters we will try not to. Valerie A Ramey: But if we do, I will let you know in advance as much as possible. And then also explain why I think it's necessary to have to deviate from what the initial posted syllabus was Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so have some basic information and key leaks. I'm Valerie Raimi I'm Professor of Economics here at UCSD. I've been here for decades. My office these days is on zoom Valerie A Ramey: So you don't even need to know my campus office since I haven't been there in months. The course web page is on Canvas. So you should all have signed up there for it and Valerie A Ramey: As long as you're registered in the course you should be able to access that page, the class email. Alright, so this is important. This is the email for sending virtually every email that has something to do with this course econ three ramy at GMAIL. COM Valerie A Ramey: We will have I started Manning it this morning and then we will have Valerie A Ramey: Various of the instructional staff tease and you lie as Manning it and answering your questions and if something is really important that they can't answer. Valerie A Ramey: They forward it to me and or start in the Gmail and let me know that I should go look at it. Alright, so please do not send email to my UCSD Professor account. Valerie A Ramey: Because that's used for research and all my service obligations for the profession and for the University California Valerie A Ramey: The only exception is if you have an emergency concerning an exam or if there's some non class related matter, then it's OK to use that email. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so. So remember, don't use it that email also don't use Canvas for email and I asked my head TA, and it's a lot harder to answer questions in Canvas. Valerie A Ramey: Then on Gmail search emails still the best technology. And so that is where the class account is and it will be regularly monitored, so you can get your questions answered. There Valerie A Ramey: Any questions about that. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: All right, so materials for the course. Valerie A Ramey: The textbook, which is Principles of Economics and this was also used for econ one and econ two if you happen to have taken it. Valerie A Ramey: The older additions are not suitable substitutes. Valerie A Ramey: For many years, you could do that in for some textbooks, but there were major changes made to the macro chapters in this edition of it went back to being a really high quality. Valerie A Ramey: Book on the macro front, whereas for a while. It wasn't very good. You're not required to buy the Learn smart or connect supplement. However, if you already have it or if you want it. I have on the course web page, the link to the Connect home works. Valerie A Ramey: The a couple things there. We had some issues that turns out that the registration dates were wrong. And that's why several people Valerie A Ramey: had emailed me yesterday and this morning because they weren't able to get on I've corrected that I'm hoping that that works. I haven't had a chance to check Valerie A Ramey: The emails. Recently I've made it so that the Learn smart the homework and the quiz. Valerie A Ramey: For all the relevant chapters for this course are there for you to work on, you have multiple or I think infinite attempts Valerie A Ramey: There's no due date, except for the end of the course, but then it shows you, after you've made several attempts gives you feedback. After the first attempt and then shows you the answers after that. Valerie A Ramey: So that's something you can do on your own. And because the chapter numbers are the same as what I will refer to in the canvas homework and in the textbook. Valerie A Ramey: It should be easy to figure out which homework, you should be working on. If you want to work on extra homework. Those are not graded they're completely up to you, you can just use them to have extra problems sets. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Non programmable scientific calculator needed for exams. Now this is a usual requirement because exams are usually given in rooms. Valerie A Ramey: And it's important to me because I don't want you to program formulas into it. I think it'll still be Valerie A Ramey: Required it's likely to be required this quarter. These things are very cheap $12 or something. And a lot of courses require them. Valerie A Ramey: At night needs to be scientific. Because you have to be able to take exponents or logs, but it doesn't need to be you know do much more than that. And actually, let me show you what it looks like. Let's see if I can hold this up. This is, this is mine. Valerie A Ramey: And you know, that's kind of what they look like. The other thing is that if, if indeed we do say that they are required for the exams. Make sure you know how to use it ahead of time. Valerie A Ramey: Number of times when exams are in person. I have people coming into the exam, opening up the plastic on this new calculator. Valerie A Ramey: And because it works differently from the scientific calculator. They were used to. They didn't even know how to use it. And there, they'd be on an exam asking teachers how to use their own calculator so Valerie A Ramey: You practice using it in advance if you need to. But there is a chance that you may not need this simply because of the way the exams are given. So, so this is one of the things where we need to be flexible on Valerie A Ramey: Then materials and videos that I will post on canvas. These include the partial lecture notes which I've asked you to print or download and take notes on them. Valerie A Ramey: The first ones, as I said, most of the informations on the lecture note in later ones. I will be doing quite a bit of writing on them so you will want something some way to write on them. You can do it on the computer, or if you want to print them out. You can also do that and right pin. Valerie A Ramey: Videos of lecture, of course, are always up there now and I used to video podcast. So that really hasn't changed. So you can certainly watch things asynchronously. Valerie A Ramey: homework assignments. Right. Valerie A Ramey: This year, I've gone back to my old method which is to actually have graded homework assignments. So, you will have homework assignments. I'll give you a few more details later when we talk about the grades and those will be required. There'll be up there. Valerie A Ramey: Because their canvas is not the easiest system to work on. And one thing that's what we're doing this quarter is we're creating question groups. So the each person's homework is different, but Valerie A Ramey: while creating these things. If you have more than 25 questions. Valerie A Ramey: You cannot get them all to display for for the people creating the exam. So that's why, in some cases, I actually split up the homework to homework. Number one, a homework number Valerie A Ramey: Two or homework. Number one, be those sorts of things. So, so just to let you know sometimes it'll be several parts of the homework and you would have to do each one and submit it. Valerie A Ramey: Independently it's also for the longer chapters, it's nice if you can kind of work on one part of the homework for one part of the chapter separately from homework on another part of the chapter because if the topics are different. Valerie A Ramey: And then current events articles I will often talk about current events articles and then I will post either the article itself or my summary of the article that I had presented in class. So that will also be there. Valerie A Ramey: And then I will have several supplementary videos and articles on this and that. I will also post on canvas and you sometimes I will give quizzes on those videos just to make sure that you Valerie A Ramey: have watched them. Normally, those are very easy things, but I just want to make sure you watch them before you come to class for some lectures. If you come to class. Okay, any questions on this. Valerie A Ramey: Okay I can't see the chat. But I'm sure that I do see little flashes from the chat so Valerie A Ramey: Any questions you have. They're unsure, that the teas and you guys can answer or tell me about later. Valerie A Ramey: Alright prerequisites for the course successful completion of econ one. And as I said, because we, I will be referring to econ one material quite a bit. And I assume that you've mastered it. Valerie A Ramey: Also knowledge of college level mathematics calculus is not required. So, just to make sure that you know how to do to draw a graph presents a few things like logs and I'll review that a little bit here. Valerie A Ramey: Also, a lot of times people say, oh, they come in with questions. I said, well, Valerie A Ramey: In the textbook didn't say that they said all the textbooks so hard to read. Okay, so I'm assuming that you're a college level. Valerie A Ramey: And that you have college level reading and writing skills and that you can read and comprehend college level textbook, which is the textbook for this course. Valerie A Ramey: read and comprehend articles from newspapers and magazines, so I'll be talking about several articles, particularly from the Wall Street Journal Valerie A Ramey: I expect you to be able to write clearly and coherently even if not with perfect grammar, spelling in English. Okay, and then to understand spoken English. Valerie A Ramey: Now I know that there are quite a few students, particularly for freshmen who are not native English speakers who may not have even arrived in the US yet and I know that it can be difficult to to understand Valerie A Ramey: Spoken English particularly or just to make it through those textbooks or to understand synonyms. Alright, so Valerie A Ramey: Several things that I started video podcasting, you know, number of years ago so that students who are not yet flowing in English may replay my lectures. If they don't understand something. Valerie A Ramey: And I encourage you to ask about vocabulary. You do not understand through the class email or in office hours. Valerie A Ramey: I figured out from the past, that there are a number of English words they're used for several things that can be quite confusing for somebody who's not a native English speaker, for example, stock. Valerie A Ramey: Often means you say the stock market. So say Apple Computer stock but stock in in other senses can mean the stock of inventories. That is how many inventories are on the shelves. Valerie A Ramey: And in the past several students would get confused about those sorts of things. So you should always ask a question about vocabulary, because I don't want you to be confused. Just because you're, you're not a native English speaker, and are not yet fluent in English. Valerie A Ramey: All right, great. So Valerie A Ramey: For some reason, and ok so the homework is going to be 10% and I'm going to drop the lowest 10% of points. So, Valerie A Ramey: Suppose that some returns in all the homework. But, you know, Mrs. Some of them. I'm going to cap it so that the total possible points is 90 Valerie A Ramey: And 90% of what whatever the total number of points is so that your homework score will be the minimum Valerie A Ramey: Of 90 or whatever you got, you know, in terms of a percent. So I'm going to drop that. So that might turn out. If you completely skipped a homework assignment. It might turn out that we just dropped those points or the lowest parts from each homework assignment. Valerie A Ramey: The first midterm is 20% Valerie A Ramey: That will occur Thursday, January 21. So just in a few weeks at 8pm to nine around 9:20pm online. It might. This might vary a little bit the ending time just because in case we need more setup time because I think they given us two hours on the course schedule for that. Valerie A Ramey: And mentor. Number two is going to be 30% that'll be February 18 I give less weight to return. Number one, because there's less material on it. Valerie A Ramey: And the material, even though it's really important foundation for the course tends to be a little easier. So most people do much better on the first midterm, just in terms of points. Valerie A Ramey: That on the second midterm. But I always curve my exams. So if the material is harder than you don't need to get as many points typically to Valerie A Ramey: To get a good grade and it and degrade with the curb the grade often depends on how you rank relative to everybody else, and particularly with hundreds and hundreds of students. Valerie A Ramey: We can kind of figure out if an exam turned out to be harder or easier than past exams and we can adjust the scores for that. And then the final exam is 40% Valerie A Ramey: For the 10am lecture that will be on Friday from eight to 11 for the 11am lecture that will be on Monday from 1130 to 232 30 and that'll be in March. Okay. And I want to say something here, which is Valerie A Ramey: Currently, Valerie A Ramey: Because there were there were some snags with the way the two lectures were set up because they were set up for when we actually had Valerie A Ramey: We're going to be physically in a classroom and they forgot to change it when I said that you know we should just do online. Valerie A Ramey: I would like to have more people in the 11th at 11am lecture. There are several reasons for that. There are because of the way the university does formulas Valerie A Ramey: To have over 200 the university gives our department 200 students. The university gives our department more credit for that. Valerie A Ramey: I also get more teaching credit and it's just better to have a better distribution of the numbers of students. So I'm asking you. Valerie A Ramey: If at all. You can switch from the 10am lecture to the 11am lecture. All right. You're allowed to go to whichever lecture you want, okay, because we don't have any space constraints. Valerie A Ramey: You can go to any discussion section you want is that, as I will highlight later on both Midterms are at the same time. The only difference is whether the final exam is on Monday or Friday. Valerie A Ramey: Now, just from past experience, not because I range it this way because I have to write two finals and Monday final and Friday final. The second one always tends to be harder. Valerie A Ramey: Than the first one I try to adjust the scores there, but typically a Monday file is, you know, not as challenging as a Friday. Fine. I can't guarantee that but that's another reason if you're able to take your final on Monday. If you're able to switch your Valerie A Ramey: Lecture, it would really help the department and it would just be better for this class in terms of being able to distribute the workload from between the two lectures. Valerie A Ramey: Any questions on that. Katie Yang: Hi Professor Katie Yang: Yes, also mentioned in the chat. Katie Yang: But almost a little this on canvas. This is the homework is worth 5% of our date and the final is 45% Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Did you did you look at the first page of that syllabus. Katie Yang: That is the night that's Katie Yang: 2021 it says 2021 Valerie A Ramey: No, no, no, no. It says Valerie A Ramey: How could Kenneth Albaran: Yeah, it says when turn 2021 Valerie A Ramey: That is really, really strange. Valerie A Ramey: Because this is what I uploaded there. Valerie A Ramey: Oh, goodness. All right, let me do thank you for, like, thank you for alerting me to this. Let me go into. You can't let me. I'm going to stop sharing For a second, Valerie A Ramey: That I just do not like Candace, because I know that I specifically uploaded the right one. Let me through Google Presentations Valerie A Ramey: I know what it is. Valerie A Ramey: It is No, that's right. Valerie A Ramey: It had to do with the saving it to PDF Valerie A Ramey: There it is. Thank you so much. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, I'm now going to upload Valerie A Ramey: That is so weird that it that there was an old version. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: I don't want that. Just to say I'm going to delete it remove it and then upload again. Valerie A Ramey: Select the third time I've done this, it's All right. Valerie A Ramey: File, New File Sonus Valerie A Ramey: Choose File. Valerie A Ramey: Let me look and see Valerie A Ramey: Yes. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Put that up to the front. Okay, go ahead and download that. Valerie A Ramey: And and tell me if when you get to this page that the group. If the grades are right, you may have to refresh. Patrick Miencharoen: Good. Valerie A Ramey: Thank you. So I apologize for that. You know what I think is just a sec. I've got a reshare my, um, Valerie A Ramey: I think that when I had saved the updated PDF before that Microsoft, because I do most things on my lap on my Valerie A Ramey: Desktop. I think that Microsoft had Valerie A Ramey: Does every basic Valerie A Ramey: I think that Microsoft had accidentally shared it to another folder and hence had not overwritten the old version that I was in the midst of working on. So I think that that that the I blame it on. Can I blamed it on canvas, but I don't think it was Canvas as part fault. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so please feel free to ask any questions because you must be completely confused because of what that okay think that that was all the same. Let me just make sure and Valerie A Ramey: All right, prerequisites and then the greats. Valerie A Ramey: Ah, so this is where it's a little bit different. Okay, so this is where I say the material before the first midterm is important foundation Valerie A Ramey: Alright guys so homework is 10% Valerie A Ramey: And I dropped the lowest 10% of points. First midterms 20% second midterms 30% and final exam is 40% Valerie A Ramey: Okay, I already told you about the material before the first midterm. Patrick Miencharoen: Going to discussion sections is Valerie A Ramey: strongly recommended but Valerie A Ramey: Not required and you may attend any discussion section of your choosing. Patrick Miencharoen: A sir, just to just to be completely sure the the Midterms are at 8pm at night right not 8am. Valerie A Ramey: Now, that is correct. That is what and that's Valerie A Ramey: Assuming that there's no error there. That is what is listed in the schedule classes. Valerie A Ramey: One reason that we did that, well, Valerie A Ramey: Part of it goes back to having physical rooms. If you want an out of class midterm. They always schedule it in the evening, because that's the only time you can find an extra room. Valerie A Ramey: But the second reason that it actually makes sense to have the gave it to me at this time is because so many people are on Asian time zones. Valerie A Ramey: They can actually be awake for it, however, of course, it's a pain for people who are on European and Middle Eastern time zones, but Valerie A Ramey: At least for them. The, the synchronous lectures are easier for Europe and people in the Middle East to attend. So we're trying to accommodate the global classroom here. Patrick Miencharoen: I see. Thank you. Valerie A Ramey: Yes, thank you, thanks for Valerie A Ramey: Asking that question. Yeah. Right now, I'm so unsure about everything with the snafu on the syllabus. Okay. The final exam is cumulative sense later material builds on the earlier material. However, more emphasis will be put on the later material. Valerie A Ramey: Right academic integrity. All right. I always have slides on this. It's always important. It's a real challenge. During this online era. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: So academic dishonesty will not be tolerated all suspected cases of academic dishonesty will be reported to the academic integrity coordinator Valerie A Ramey: Students found guilty of academic dishonesty will earn failing grade for the course. In addition to the penalties imposed by the academic integrity review board. Okay, so we have severe penalties. Valerie A Ramey: To make sure that nobody's tempted to engage an academic dishonesty. All right. And I do this to protect the integrity. What a great means in this course, and particularly to protect your classmates who want to get a good grade to hard work rather than dishonesty. Valerie A Ramey: Follow your just a few examples of academic dishonesty using an authorized materials during an exam. Valerie A Ramey: Copying and other students answers for a homework or during an exam, having someone else take your exam for you or give you the answers lying about having taken an exam or completed an assignment. Valerie A Ramey: For more information on all the rules and academic integrity. Here is the link Okay. Valerie A Ramey: I, I haven't had a chance to have my big team meeting where we're going to put our heads together to figure out the best ways to deliver the exams. Valerie A Ramey: We will likely use zoom LockDown Browser, but not for sure for practicing this quarter. These programs use video and audio recording or other personal information. Valerie A Ramey: Capture for the purpose of facilitating the course and or test environment. Valerie A Ramey: UC San Diego does not allow vendors to use this information for other purposes. Valerie A Ramey: Recordings will be deleted. When no longer necessary, however, cheating is suspected a recording may become part of the students administrative disciplinary record, right. So I want to make sure you're aware of that. Valerie A Ramey: If anything, raises our suspicions about an exam, we reserve the right to administer a short quiz either written or oral to verify whether the performance on the exam reflects the students own knowledge. Valerie A Ramey: And I did this for several students at the end of last winter quarter, which was the last time I taught undergraduates. Valerie A Ramey: Just to make sure. Because there. For example, their grades had improved so much on the final, because only the final was online last winter quarter, because that's when coven was first hitting Valerie A Ramey: You know, I just wanted to make sure that that it did reflect their knowledge. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, log on, probably for exams. I will not allow students who log on very late to take the exam because of cheating concerns right if I didn't have cheating. Valerie A Ramey: When, when we have a physical classroom. My rule is if you arrive late, I will let you take the exam to regular and as long as nobody has left the classroom, but with online, it's hard to define left the classroom so so to be prompt in terms of logging on for exams. Valerie A Ramey: Right few administrative issues if you need to miss a midterm for a valid and verifiable medical, legal, I don't know if anybody will have sports reasons during coven but Valerie A Ramey: Maybe, maybe you're in one of those like countries like New Zealand where there's hardly any covert and you have a sports thing, although I doubt it would be UCSD official sports reason Valerie A Ramey: Then you'll have to take a longer final exam will have an extra module, depending on which midterm. You had to miss failure to notify me properly that you must miss a turn will result in the zero grade for that mid term unexcused absences wall so result in a zero. Valerie A Ramey: Alright lectures lecture attendance is strongly encouraged if your time zone makes synchronous attendance difficult. You should watch all the lectures on the videos posted on canvas. Valerie A Ramey: A little bit of lecture etiquette for the online things it's disconcerting for instructors to teach to nothing but faceless zoom boxes. Valerie A Ramey: If your circumstances permit turn on your video cameras, much as possible. I know that some days you say I'm not fit to be seen on camera. It's okay. Put up a nice picture yourself or a beautiful background and, you know, you don't have to keep them on all the time. Valerie A Ramey: But it's nice if if I can at least see some students, and particularly if you ask a question. It's nice. Valerie A Ramey: Also please keep yourself muted until you want to ask a question student questions, comments and discussion are strongly encouraged it really makes the class more lively Valerie A Ramey: So it's just wonderful. I know that usually a small group of students who will ask questions, but I think that it actually benefits everybody because often Valerie A Ramey: A lot of people are confused about the same thing, such as my screw up on the syllabus it so it's good to to interrupt and ask a question on that. Plus, you know, certainly on the Valerie A Ramey: Material the class. You may also use the chat feature zoom to ask questions. I actually don't see that between me seeing my my sharing and pictures of you. I'm not seeing the chat, although we I'm let me actually work. Let me see what happens when I click chat. How do I see the chat. Chat. Valerie A Ramey: So how I'm not seeing chat. Well, unfortunately, I think my teeth are seeing it so Valerie A Ramey: Maybe if I stop sharing. I can see this chat. But in any case, while I'm sharing, which is going to be a lot of the part I can't see the chat. But the th can so it's also good if you just ask verbal questions to me as well. Valerie A Ramey: And then people said occasionally students find the chat disrupting and my t's. Will you may temporarily halted. If that's the case. Valerie A Ramey: I'm also going to post practice problems for students to solve in class, a student responses are strongly encouraged and it is OK to get a wrong answer your fellow students often learn more when I explain why answers wrong. Valerie A Ramey: In some cases, I started going through my lecture for Wednesday and making a poles for some of the questions that I have. But some of them aren't as well. Valerie A Ramey: easily answered via polls, so I will, you know, let you think about it, and then if somebody wants to call out an answer. So we'll have a mix of some of them will be poor questions. Some of them will just be call out an answer question. Valerie A Ramey: We have a huge stretch instructional team. We have quite a few teaching assistants who are all graduate students in our department, we have three undergraduate instructional assistance UI as Valerie A Ramey: We have to graduate readers who will be doing grading and things like that. And then we have Heather song from the academic achievement hub. Valerie A Ramey: And if Heather is in this lecture, I don't know which one. She'll be coming to if Heather's in this lecture, if you would, unmute yourself and say hello and tell people about academic hub. Valerie A Ramey: I think Heather's in the 11am lecture so she will do that. But I have information about the academic achievement hub on the canvas web page and then office hours. We're, we're going to sort out at our TA meeting tomorrow and we will Valerie A Ramey: I will have those posted very soon. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Oh, and let me let me mention actually part of when we have office hours will depend on Valerie A Ramey: What, how many students are in which time zone. So I posted under the homework and upgraded survey and it would be really helpful to me if you completed that survey. One question asked about your time zone. Valerie A Ramey: And then other questions asked about what technology you have available to you and that is also very useful for us to know. Okay, so, so please fill that out as soon as you can, because as we set up the course. It's good to have that information. Valerie A Ramey: Discussion current discussion sections are all on Wednesdays one at 4pm several at 5pm 6pm and 7pm. I think Valerie A Ramey: As I said, attendance is strongly encouraged, but not required. Or you may go to your official section or any other section as long as there's room. I think in zoom. There's room. Valerie A Ramey: If attendance is low it two sections that are scheduled for the same time, we may combine them into one section. So we'll, we'll just wait and see on that. Valerie A Ramey: Typically, it'll just be one or two th leading a section of for a week and that way they can really specialize in that material. So you'll see the same TA at the different sections on a particular day Valerie A Ramey: Unless we continue to have these concurrent SEC sections, in which case there are two possible tease for some of the sections. Did you have a question mean June. Valerie A Ramey: No. Okay. Sorry. Valerie A Ramey: Oh, it's okay, it's because you are unmuted. So, so I thought you would. It's. Oh, it's fine. You don't know you didn't make any noise. It's just I saw you unmute yourself. So that's fine. Jayson Kim: Okay, can I ask a question about that. Yes. Jayson Kim: I just switched from like the 10am lecture to the 11am one Jayson Kim: Okay, and then like it shouldn't. And then it now it says I have like a scheduling conflict. Jayson Kim: Into like the discussion. So that shouldn't like actually affect Valerie A Ramey: I Jayson Kim: Guess I can just go to any of the Jayson Kim: You can see connections, then Valerie A Ramey: Exactly. You can go to any of the discussion sections and as long as it lets you isn't allowing you did it allow you to enroll in this Jayson Kim: Yeah, it did. It's just Valerie A Ramey: Not a coffee. Valerie A Ramey: Yes. So, so for all intensive purposes. The two sections are better than the two lectures are identical in terms of what they give you access to all right. Jayson Kim: Okay, thank you. Thanks. Valerie A Ramey: Okay topic outline, we're going to go through this Valerie A Ramey: In more detail when I start when I start talking about the Valerie A Ramey: Overview of the course so simple. We'll save that. So any other questions about the syllabus. Patrick Miencharoen: Um, I, I may have missed when you said it earlier, but did you tell us how often we're going to be assigned homework. Valerie A Ramey: Go, I didn't. So let me tell you. Valerie A Ramey: What. Okay, so there will be two, three chapters that we cover before the first mentor. And just to give you an idea. The first one is going to be chapter 16 which is just an overview. I don't even assign homework on that. All right. I prepared the homework already for chapter 17 Valerie A Ramey: Part one. A as I told her you know I've kind of split them. That one has 1515 points. Valerie A Ramey: Okay so 15 questions and that, that'll be on GDP, the second, the very last part of chapter 17 is on unemployment in the labor force. And I have another one which I think I had made Valerie A Ramey: To be perhaps 10 questions. Alright, so then that would be 25 questions total for chapter 17 which is a longer chapter the I i've done chapter 18 which is Valerie A Ramey: How many did I do, I think I did 12 questions. The reason that it varies. And that's why I just say, you know, I dropped the bottom 10% because I don't treat all of the homework, the same Valerie A Ramey: Is because you can't see the answer to the question until the due date. Valerie A Ramey: And I want people to have that. And the answers available so that they can study for the exam. And because we are covering this material before the first mentor. What it means is going before the first midterm, you will have homework. Valerie A Ramey: Up to two a week, but they it's because I've divided them into two parts. And sometimes they'll have the same due date. Sometimes they'll have a slightly adjusted due date. Patrick Miencharoen: So can we say that will average that like say one a week, does that Valerie A Ramey: If you think of them as a lot like 25 QUESTIONS YOU WILL average one a week starting on that second week Patrick Miencharoen: Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Thank you. Okay, good. Yeah. seiji minowada: I have a question. seiji minowada: Yes, I have another class at 11am so if I enroll in this class at 11am will look like they're a scheduling conflict or should I be good. Valerie A Ramey: Oh, that's a good question. Um, yeah, I think that if it's actually another class, they will Valerie A Ramey: Say that there's a scheduling conflict. I don't know that because I never have to register for courses. I don't know that very well. You might ask somebody else. So in that case, you may not want to switch lectures. Valerie A Ramey: According to registration. Kenneth Albaran: I just had a similar situation and it was able to enroll, but I'm still gonna attend attend a lecture, but I just switched to the 11th. Valerie A Ramey: That's great. That's great. Valerie A Ramey: Let me actually stop sharing here so that I can Tommy Wongsatjachock: If I switch to the 11am lecture. Do I have to take the final for the 11am that typically conflict with another class. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, yeah. So that would be an issue. Tommy Wongsatjachock: At this point, Valerie A Ramey: I would like you to take the final exam at the for the lecture in which you register. But if I need to be more flexible in order to get more people to switch Valerie A Ramey: I can. I mean, I will be flexible on that but but not yet. I'm going to try to get people to switch who naturally can take the other one. If they can't Valerie A Ramey: What you can do, if you're somebody who is willing to switch, but because of that conflict, you would have to take the other one I will have people fill out polls soon or email the classic count on that. And then if you're you're somebody's willing to switch Valerie A Ramey: Classic. Yeah, I don't. I want to be careful because I don't want to flood the classic email. So I have to be careful with how you answer questions to me. Um, what I will. I'll look into that. All right. I may be willing to be flexible, depending on how many people are willing to switch. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. I'd like to start just with somebody overview. Because typically, I'm able to do that during the Valerie A Ramey: Lecture and and i'm sure by the next lecture, I'll be able to do that since we won't have the Valerie A Ramey: The problem with the syllabus. So let me just go Valerie A Ramey: I'm going to just bring up the chapter. Medha Upadhyay: I'm sorry I had a quick question. Medha Upadhyay: Sure. So I don't know, maybe I didn't quite hear this right but for the homework. Did you say that we won't be able to see the correct answers until we've already turned it in Valerie A Ramey: Yes, until the due date. Valerie A Ramey: The reason. Again, it's because of Valerie A Ramey: You know, cheating. I don't want one person to submit their homework, figure out what the correct answers are, and then tell their roommate or I guess you don't have roommates. These days, but some right so I don't want the answers to get out. Valerie A Ramey: Until the due date. And so that's why it's really tricky for me to give you enough time to do the homework, but to Valerie A Ramey: Be able to see the answers in time to be able to study for the midterm. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Medha Upadhyay: And so the homework will be graded on accuracy, but we just like won't know until after we've already turned it in Valerie A Ramey: That's correct, yeah. Yeah. So how was how was it done in Econ one Medha Upadhyay: It. We used to learn smart. I think so. It just would if you got it wrong, it would give you another question on the same topic, but, you know, with different numbers are Valerie A Ramey: Right, that that's that is much harder. So Canvas windy doesn't even allow that. Valerie A Ramey: Why don't I. So you might say, well, why don't I just require everybody to do to learn smart thing. The reason is that the connected and learn smart. Valerie A Ramey: The cost of the additional cost of that it's really rough for some students and I don't think it's right to require students to pay to turn in homework. Valerie A Ramey: So, so that's why I do the I write all of the questions on canvas. Valerie A Ramey: But I certainly make the Connect available for people who are willing to pay and would like the extra practice. So one thing is if you have access to connect Valerie A Ramey: Because the questions are probably pretty similar. You can do the Connect ones first is practice and then do the class homework ones. Alright, so that would be a way to do it. Yeah. Okay, thank you. Other questions. GITA ANAND: Hi Professor, I had one GITA ANAND: Are we allowed to collaborate on homework isn't Valerie A Ramey: Ah, so that's that's a good question. So if you look GITA ANAND: At Valerie A Ramey: The canvas. I have because academic integrity said this. Valerie A Ramey: But you're allowed to use for the homework and and the collaboration is no Valerie A Ramey: So give me a little feedback on this, since we haven't started the homework yet. I mean I typically don't mind if people Valerie A Ramey: Talk to each other about homework, but I want them to answer themselves too often because homework being 10% of the grade can make a difference. Valerie A Ramey: In occurred class. And so I've seen a number of students who get perfect scores on the homework. Valerie A Ramey: And then they would do badly on the exam, and given that the exam, you know, even on the one the homework, the exam questions are very similar to the homework. And I thought, Oh, this is so unfair. Valerie A Ramey: Because somebody else who didn't say copy from somebody else's who really learn the material themselves might have missed more and then get a lower grade. So, so that's why I'm very careful about collaboration. Valerie A Ramey: One thing you could do is is collaborate with a Valerie A Ramey: You know, with a classmate on connect homework, you know, talk about it. And so if you do those by the time you get to the canvas, then you would Valerie A Ramey: Be able, by the time you get to campus, you wouldn't you would be really good at doing the homework that's another possibility. Okay. And somebody I see somebody asked is the homework. Valerie A Ramey: Graded based on completion or correct answers. That's correct answers. That's why I dropped the lowest 10% of the answers. Okay. All right, sorry. Valerie A Ramey: You're not required to complete any every all the Connect and learn smart is a completely voluntary there's nothing in the great about the Connect and learn smart. The only select already cut out here. I meant to write that on to to to to to let me make sure you do this too, since Valerie A Ramey: Let me get back to the syllabus. All right. Valerie A Ramey: Actually, you know, take too much to share it in the homework, make a little note to yourself with this 10% homework. Those are all canvas homework and I should have. I should have written that Valerie A Ramey: Okay so connect and learn smart are not graded, those, those are not required. I just put the link up and put all of the Valerie A Ramey: Learn smart homework and quiz from connect just for your, for people who want the extra practice. Kenneth Albaran: Oh, I prefer. I have a question about the homework. Is it, like, like there's a specific like 10 items per homework or it varies because last time. Kenneth Albaran: Yeah, whether other professor. He also did the same format as you like on canvas and we are only allowed to view the correct answer after the Judy. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so, so that was the same. You're saying Kenneth Albaran: For Professor love Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so, oh so so thank you. This is very useful. So Valerie A Ramey: So he he basically you had all the questions and then after the due date. You could see all the answers. Kenneth Albaran: Yeah. So regardless of whether you submit early or before just the Valerie A Ramey: Right. And so, um, I don't know. So give me feedback on that. So there's two purposes of the Homework one is Valerie A Ramey: That the reason to graded just because people will do it. Alright. If you don't, if you don't create it. People don't do it as well. I noticed the last several years. When I did not have great at homework. The students did not do as well on exams. Valerie A Ramey: So the good thing is the grading. However, the homework is also really good for instructional reasons where you learn from your mistakes. And so for that reason. It's a little bit hard. You know, I'd like to give you multiple attempts, but it's really hard with the question groups because Valerie A Ramey: Because it randomized is a new question each time. Valerie A Ramey: So I'm not sure what to do. I mean, that's why you know I just dropped the lowest 10% and and i will at least I will drop at least the lowest 10% if we decide if there were a lot of homework. Some people miss them, because there were some that were more frequent Valerie A Ramey: I could see myself dropping an even greater percentage of the lowest grade to write Kenneth Albaran: But is there like a like fix number of questions for homework or no. Valerie A Ramey: Part of it. Valerie A Ramey: As I said, part of it is because I'm trying to Valerie A Ramey: Keep 25 or less total questions. Valerie A Ramey: And so we have to write more questions than you actually do because we do these question pools. Valerie A Ramey: But then sometimes some of the material. So, for example, for the GDP chapter the GDP part of the chapter is longer than Valerie A Ramey: The unemployment part of the chapter. So that's so I split the homework up into the GDP homework versus the unemployment homework and unemployment homework has fewer questions than the GDP homework. Valerie A Ramey: So just think of it is submitting several parts of the same homework. Kenneth Albaran: Thank you. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: All right, so, um, I can stay and answer questions for a bit until I start lecturing again at 11 Let me see. Valerie A Ramey: Have a great day. Professor take you to Valerie A Ramey: See you on Wednesday. Tyler Carney: Thanks so much. Have a good day. Valerie A Ramey: Bye Bye youtube Matthew Wilson: By professor Zeyang Wang: Bye bye bye professor Yvette Song: Professor, I have a question. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. You bet. Yvette Song: So people who are in a different time zone. So will you be able to provide like different like sections for midterm or finals. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so, so the lectures can be synchronous or asynchronous right so if you're in a different time zone. You do not need to come to lecture. All right. Valerie A Ramey: Everything else is because it'll be recorded the discussion sections so Valerie A Ramey: Stephen Molly would typically the discussion section. So, those recorded as well. I'm pretty sure. Yes, the discussion sections will be recorded. The only thing that synchronous Valerie A Ramey: Are the two midterms and finals. Okay. And it's just because it's it's too difficult to give them at different times, people have had some bad instances of academic dishonesty and for that reason. Valerie A Ramey: That's why. Valerie A Ramey: I mentioned the exam synchronous Yvette Song: Okay. Valerie A Ramey: All right. And, well, I'll announce next given us so many people have left all make an announcement about the people in the math 10 be ones that have a conflict. Yvette Song: Okay, thank you. You're welcome. Tommy Wongsatjachock: Good professor. Okay. Bye bye. Kimberly Tom: Professor on campus. Kimberly Tom: I saw that you like posted like the lecture slides and let you have chapter 16 for like today's class or we decided to go over there on Wednesday. Valerie A Ramey: Yeah, that's a good well. Usually I get through that in the first lecture. So what was going on in the back of my head. What I said okay lectures overs. Valerie A Ramey: I said, Oh, I haven't gotten through that. Valerie A Ramey: Which would. So what I may do. I'm not sure what to do about that because it's going to Valerie A Ramey: Squeeze out, it's going to delay, getting to some of the other material. I don't want to rush through it. So I'm going to think about that. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: It just, it simply took longer to get through the syllabus in part because of the mistake, what I made. If I get to it in my 11 O'clock lecture. Valerie A Ramey: I may just ask your lecture just look at, you know, just watch the 11 O'clock lecture, the last part because it's just the overview. And as I said, I don't even, you know, ask any homework on that part. So, Valerie A Ramey: It's tough to be in the 10 O'clock lecture because that's where I make all my mistakes you guys help me with them and then by 11 o'clock. Valerie A Ramey: So another reason to switch to the 11 o'clock. Valerie A Ramey: All right. Kimberly Tom: Thank you. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Thank you. Bye bye. Hey, Christian Kim: I prefer to have a question. Christian Kim: Um, so, I noticed that some of your podcasts from winter 2020 are still on the podcast website. Christian Kim: Oh, I was just Christian Kim: I was just wondering, because this is a macro economics course it and we're in a pandemic right now, if we were to follow the lectures from Christian Kim: With the content be at all different since the world's operating in a different way, compared to last year when we didn't realize we were living in this situation. Valerie A Ramey: Yes, it is different. Now one of the really interesting things. If you watch the lectures from a year ago would be seeing how we're all suddenly realizing that this pandemic thing isn't something that happens happening across the world and move on and Valerie A Ramey: Then I started talking about the economics of it. First what it had done to China's GDP and their industrial production and then I made predictions. Valerie A Ramey: And you can see my predictions that I made on the last day of lecture. Valerie A Ramey: And I was, if I recall, I was spot on, on a bunch of things there. So you would be out of date, but it would be interesting from a historical perspective to see the difference. Valerie A Ramey: I talked a lot about current events and coven was becoming a current event in the second half of the quarter last year and it's now the current event this year so Valerie A Ramey: It's how I linked to the current events will be different. Last year, relative to this year so Christian Kim: Okay, so the content overall is going to be the same. It's just the current events themselves are just going to be very different from Valerie A Ramey: Yes, yes. Christian Kim: Okay, that makes sense. Thank you. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. You're welcome. Alton Spornick: A professor. I have a question about the homework sure I'm on the connects McGraw Hill website and most of the assignments are assigned like one or two years ago and they have a due date of about a year ago. Alton Spornick: And really Valerie A Ramey: For the Valerie A Ramey: 21 2020 I Valerie A Ramey: I Alton Spornick: I can share my screen if you want Valerie A Ramey: No, I believe you. I Valerie A Ramey: Connect is, you know, this is I was telling my head. Yeah. Should I was going to assign a TA to do all the Connect stuff. And I said, Oh, I think I got it up there just fine. Valerie A Ramey: I can't believe because the registration date. I had changed and it went back to 2020 the dates on the homework I manually changed. Each one I manually change those Valerie A Ramey: Actually, I did them as a group change all the dates to this and it sounds like connected not do it. So I have. Sorry about that. I will Valerie A Ramey: I'm going to that will bring in the heavy hitters won't will assign a TA to do it. Thank you for feedback and always feel free to you can tell me in class like this or, you know, send it to the Gmail account in between lectures and and Valerie A Ramey: We will we will get that fixed. That is such a pain. Alton Spornick: Thank you professor YouTube Valerie A Ramey: Okay, I'm going to take a quick break. I'm going to end this one and then take a quick break and start up the next lecture. You're always welcome to join the next lecture. If you want right like