 I do. Anybody see any econ news this morning? Mercenary While we're waiting, Louis? Let me tomorrow whilst the good. Let me see if there's anything I'm looking at the Wall Street Journal. Not much this morning on the economic for instance. Mm-hm. Oh. So I see that somebody asked in the chat whether undergrads get free subscription for Wall Street Journal and unfortunately no date down. So when I talk about something from the Wall Street Journal, I exert key parts of it and then I post does excerpts so that you have access to them. They'll I guess they're able to charge a lot for The Wall Street Journal. I used to get subscriptions per my intermediate class. Classes, but it was still a little expensive. So Financial Times is also really good, but they're so expensive given that I get the Wall Street Journal. I don't also get to Financial Times, did he kind of that's an alternative. And then that's more of an international PM to two. Okay. So let's go ahead and get started. Let me start with just a few announcements and based on questions and things. So first of all, a discussion section. There are no discussion section this week, right? And then we'll be setting them up for the following weeks ahead. Tas currently doing the assigning for that right now. Right. So no discussion sections this week. Discussion sections will start next week. Second, office hours. I have my I'm posted and the TAs ones will be posted very soon is just again, the head TA is trying to make sure that we have them distributed two days through time zones and things like that. So mine honor, on Monday, I did originally had on Wednesday, but I realized that doesn't work as well. On Monday, I how some for half an hour starting at 1150 after I lectured a second time. Because as you probably know, I lecture at ten, I lecture at 11. So you can just pop into the 11 o'clock lecture at the end if you want to ask me questions. I also was interested in how many people would be interested in me getting on early before class on Monday before the ten AM lecture, say 20 minutes to half an hour early to answer questions or just to chat for some office hours them. Would that be useful to people? Yeah. Okay. So I will try to do that and I think I'll just at this point, I'm, I'm thinking it's just easier if we just use the class lecture zoom. And then I just pause the recording during the office hours apart and then I have to remember to put it back on. So so tentatively, I hope to be here on Mondays, at least 20 minutes before class. I have office hours, maybe even half an hour. So you can just kind of check. Alright, so I will do that. There is, so that's office hours. And then just keep looking at the little module that says Office Hours and academic hub at the TA office hours will be posted there as soon as we know we had that sorted out. Third thing, I have now posted two homeworks which you can't do yet. So there's homework number one a and homework number one B. But because there were so many questions of what the homeworks will look like, I went ahead and posted them and you can get started on them whenever you want. But I recommend seeing a little bit more of the lecture material before you see that. Number four, please remember to fill out the survey. If you don't fill out the survey, I will assume that you're on California time, that you have all the technology you need, you have a printer, all that stuff. If you fill out the survey and give us other answers, then what you will have that in our records. So please fill out the survey. It's very quaint. It's about your time zone and what kind of technology you have access to. Because that helps us in terms of figuring out demand. Alright, I think that's that. Any questions? Hi. Alright. So as you saw in the announcement, because of the mix up with the syllabus, we, we were slowed down and the ten AM lecture. And I like to stay constant with the two lectures. So I asked you to watch the last ten minutes of the 11:00 AM lecturer. And again, this is just the overview. I don't even ask a problem set on it. So that's why today I'm going to start around pH nine, Slide nine of chapter 16. Okay. So you didn't see that announcement. The reason that you feel that you might have missed something would be that you didn't see the announcement and didn't just check in on those ten minutes of the lecture. For the most part, I'm going to try not how to do this very much, but it's a lot less confused. Confusing if I keep the lectures in sync. Okay? Alright, so I'm going to go ahead and break my iPad over, can start sharing. And I want to do some experiments, so I need a little bit, uh, your feedback because I was, I want to be able to see your faces, but I also want to be able to share. And I started, I practice a lot with a dual monitor. But I figured out I think I can do everything I want on one monitor. So we're just going to do some experiments here. Alright, so let b find the sharing. I have them according on iPad. All right. So first of all, did that shrink for you? When I move it, can you still see the sharing at a good size? Good. So, so I'm, I'm learning even more zoomed into sharings harmony. And somehow I don't see my chart. It's good for me to know when something's really confusing and the chat is going crazy. Like it would've been helpful with the syllabus that I knew why the chat was going crazy then. Ok, good. So the, I had left off in the 11 AM lecture. And again, you can just see that in a video talking about some of the major macro issues, does the second monkey to that. And one of them was, Why is it that sometimes the unemployment rate goes up and why does it go down? And it's useful if you haven't seen that video, do look at it because one of the things we do is talk about. Why the unemployment rate was so high here, White was low there. And then we talked about this point, and then we talked about the coated point. So that was something that we had done last time in 11 o'clock. We didn't get to and attend am. Alright. A fifth major macroeconomic issue is inflation. So the inflation rate that we're going to define in much more detail in chapter 18, is the rate at which prices in general are increasing over time. So recently inflation in US has been very low. But that wasn't always the case. For example, in the 19 seventies, it was, it was quite a bit higher. And as we'll see in some other countries that can get extremely high during certain time periods. So when that happens, that's called hyperinflation. That's extremely high rates of price increases. And that's a very interesting economic phenomena. You don't want to lift through it, but it's very interesting to study. Ok. And one of the things we'll studies the determinants of inflation. Alright? Next issue is the economic interdependence among nations. So countries have become increasingly interdependent. They trade with each other much more. They invest in each other's economies, both direct investment but also in their stock markets and other financial instruments. Now typically, interdependence is beneficial because it allows each country to specialize. However, it can lead to tensions because there might be trade imbalances. And certainly you've heard about some of the tensions in the news over the last several years. Alright? Now we also think about macroeconomic policy. So understanding the effects of macroeconomic policy is important because it can, it's important to understand how policy can help or it can hurt and economy. So the major types of macroeconomic policy or first monetary policy. And that's determination of the nation's money supply and a short run interest rates as well. And typically this kind of policy is conducted by a central bank. The central bank in the US is the Federal Reserve central bank of England. The UK's Bank of England, called the central bank of the European Union, is the European Central Bank and the Bank of China, the Central Bank of China. Fiscal policy. That's decisions that determine the government's budget, including spending and taxation. And we've heard quite a bit about fiscal policy, talking about covert because there are big stimulus programs that had been enacted over the last year to try to alleviate some of the economic pain that's been caused by co-create. A third type of policy is structural policy. These are policies aimed at changing the underlying structure institutions, the nation's economy. For example, moving away from government control of the economy toward a more market oriented approach is an example of a structural policy. Movement in the opposite direction is also an example of that. For example, some countries have nationalized industries. For example, Venezuela did that in the last several years, where something that was privately owned is taken over by the government and run by the government. Okay? We can also talk about positive versus normative analyses of macro policy. And you should have seen some of that in Econ one, positive analysis determines only the economic consequences of a policy, not whether it is desirable. Ok, so for example, if we say if the Federal Reserve lowers the interest rate, that will stimulate investment. That's, that's just positive analysis. That's just a prediction of what will happen. In contrast, normative analysis includes recommendations on whether a particular policies desirable and should be implemented. So for example, if I said that the US government should adopt a stimulus program of such and such because that will benefit the economy and therefore will be desirable. That would be a normative analysis. Okay, so now back to the topic outline. Remember, this is also on the syllabus, but I said that we would talk about it now. So as a little bit of background to understand why this course is going to feel meteor than econ one or two. It's for the following reason. The textbook reuse and we'd like to use the same textbook for both. Econ one, actually 10cm to AMI country so that you don't have to keep buying new textbooks. But those textbooks are sort of geared toward a semester system. With the idea being that you kinda split the textbook in half and half of it would be micro, and half of it would be macro. We're on the quarter system. So what they did was they took the micro part and split that into two. So they didn't really have enough material for econ one for full court. And they didn't really have quite enough material for Econ two per quarter. In contrast, we have way too much material in the country for a quarter because the amount of material there's for a whole semester. All right. So what we've had to do is it's just drop certain chapters, alright, and it's hard because it's a very good textbook and we'd love to do all the chapters, but it's just not possible. So chapter 16, which we're finishing up right now, then Chapter 17, These are issues in data. We're only, we're going to do a little tiny bit of Chapter 20 in conjunction with Chapter 17 as just two pages from chapter 20, because it has to do with unemployment and we need that for later. And then we do Chapter 18. Those are just sort of issues in data. And the first midterm will cover that section. I'm going to do a few. I will do some things that are not in the textbook. And in particular, I'm going to talk about compounding because it's applicable both to price level and inflation. Antique economic growth, which will be the next section. But I'm going to do that before the first midterm. This part seven into books, the economy in the long run. Chapter 19 is economic growth, productivity, living standards. That's, I think my favorite chapter in the book. I also think it's one of the easiest chapters in the book. It's just has all kinds of really nice, big thinking sorts of things. They are not as many details in terms of formulas, SAR data. We're going to skip Chapter 20. Chapter 20 is a great chapter on labor markets, on wage inequality, things like that, but we just don't have time to do it. Chapter 21 is saving per capita information. Chapter 22, money prices and the Federal Reserve, and chapter 23, financial markets, international capital flows. We then go to part a, which is the economy in the short run. That'll be short run economic fluctuations spending an output in the short run. This is where we do some of the Keynesian model. Stabilizing the economy. The role of the Fed is much as time permits. I think that will get through that. We're skipping chapter 27, this part. And then we'll do exchange rates in the open economy. You know, as much as we can fit in. And, and last year, we were able to get through quite a bit attacked, ok. Any questions on this? Other than what you have? Okay? Alright, and as people say just some of the chat, the slides are available on Canvas. And the reason that you might feel you came in in the middle of slide stays only because due to the some of the confusion on Monday, we weren't able to get through those first few slides. So I directed people to go watch the videos, pronounce. Okay. Alright. We're then going to start Chapter 17 to read. When I reshare to make the screen smaller. I don't it doesn't affect yours. I mean discipline. Okay. Put the chat down here. Put all your nice faces over here. I can at least see 20 maybe. Ok, Chapter 17. So somebody, some questions come up about where should we be reading all those sorts of things. One of the reasons that I followed the chapters of the textbook and my slides is, if it says Chapter 17, that suggests this is when you should start reading Chapter 17. Okay. So I often will not. I mentioned that because it's just assumed that if you see that we're doing chapter 18, then that's when you should be reading Chapter eight. Okay? So measures of how the economy is doing are really important for the decisions of firms, households, and policymakers in the government. If you think about things like output, unemployment and inflation there like vital signs for a doctor. Alright, so doctor will take your temperature, your blood pressure, and all those sorts of things. And economists, particularly a macroeconomist, see how an economy's doing. They'll check what's going on with output. They'll check what's going on with the unemployment rate and inflation. Those are the most important things, but they'll also look at interest rates and a variety of other indicators. So we're going to discuss the measurement of output and unemployment in chapter 17. And then we'll discuss inflation in the next chapter, chapter 18. Okay? So by the end of this chapter, you should be able to define what GDP is. You should be able to calculate it three different ways. We'll go into that. Distinguish nominal GDP from real GDP, and then measure key labor market indicators such as the unemployment rate. Okay? Alright, so the most frequently used measure of an economy's aggregate output, total amount than economy produces is Gross Domestic Product, which GDP for short. So here's some quotes. The one on the left is from the Wall Street Journal a few months ago. And this was about the US. For the US real gross domestic product increase at an annual rate of 33.4% in the third quarter of 2020. In the second quarter, real GDP decrease 31.4%. Let me just say before this year, I would've thought these were made up numbers because we've never seen changes in GDP that traumatic before. One of the things that we will talk about in a few slides is that these numbers are in some ways inflate it. And I'll explain why. Now on the right, you can see that you can also use GDP to compare the size of different economies, that is how much they produce. So this one is a projection from the International Monetary Fund that says that China's GDP could overtake the United States by 2030. Okay? So the projections are that China's economy will become bigger than the US economy by 23. These projections keep changing because they'd actually projected that by now, China would have overtaken the US economy, but it didn't happen. So we shall see. Okay, now, how do we possibly measure all the output any economy? And come up with one number. Ok? We need to add everything an economy produces in a way that makes sense. So for example, I mean, would we want to say, oh, let's take the number of cars produced. Plus, say the number of hair cuts. Should we say that? That kind of numbers GDP? No. It makes no sense to add the number of cars to a number of haircuts. They just have such different values. It is literally like adding apples and oranges. Alright? You can't just add up the quantities k Because you're not adding the same kinds of things. Alright? So what we do with GDP is we use the market value, alright? So the GDP definition is, GDP is the market value. First part, the definition of all of the final goods and services. That's the second part of the definition produced within a country. That's the third part of the definition. In a given time period. That's the fourth part of the definition. And we're going to talk about each of these parts of the definition in detail. Alright? Part one of the definition, we add the market value of all goods and services, IE, we value a unit. Whoops. We value a unit of output by its market price. All right, that's what we mean by market value. So if we have those, if we have five cars and say cars sell for 20 thousand, then we value each of those cars at 20 thousand a piece when we're adding up GDP. And the haircuts, those are $30. Then we value each of those haircuts at $30. Okay? Suppose the country gone door produces the following goods. All right, it had, it produces ten here, cuts between cloaks and six sorts, right? And the price per unit, and this is the market price is 204000. Then to figure out GDP, we want to take the number of haircuts, that's ten times the price per unit of a hair cut. Price per haircut. Add that to the 15 cloaks. Times the price of a cloak, plus six sorts times the price of a sword. And if we add all of that up. We get 1000400 as the GDP has gone door. This is all they produce. Ok, we've now put everything on the same basis. Everything is in terms of market value basis. And this way or not having the problem of adding two completely different things in a way that just doesn't make sense. Now this GDP that we've calculated is known as either current dollar. Gdp because we've used the current prices. Or it's also known as nominal. Gdp means the same thing. Current dollar GDP or nominal GDP. Okay? Haircuts are a service. Good question about that. They are included. This is the market value of all goods and services. So we can count up services, how many doctors visits you have, doctors or another service, but they're part of GDP. So that's a good question from the chat. But we face a problem. Not all economically valuable goods are sold in markets. So we don't observe their market price. And let me give you some examples and how whether these are counted with GDP or not. The first example, let me switch to glue. The first example is what we call home production. These are goods and services that people produce for themselves. Came may think of examples of home production. Goods and services that you produce for yourself, that you don't sell in the market. And the yellows. Wait, what was that? Meadows. Tomatoes. Tomatoes. Sure. So hope garden, exact is that what you were saying tomatoes, right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Home gardens. Exactly. Any other you needed when you ask at home? Yes. Cooking your own meals. That is the service that you do for yourself, right? You don't go out to eat and have somebody else cook the meal for you. You do it for yourself. Taking care of your own kids. Ok, many, many of these things, if you fix up your own garden, if you do your own repairs, that's all home production. Okay? So important. Okay? Home production is not counted in GDP. Never goes to the market. It's very, it would be very hard to calculate it. And so they, the people who do the national income and product accounts have simply decided not to counted in GDP. But that's something to keep in mind. Now, a second type of good that isn't sold in the market is a good and service, I should say. These are goods and services produced by governments. Can anybody think of examples of goods and services produced by governments? Railroads. Railroads, so, yes, so national railroads, Yes. It's not so much in the US, but certainly Britain for years had a national railroad and plenty of other ones to you. Oh boy. Okay. Superiority infrastructure? Yes. Infrastructure. Does Medicare and Medicaid or Medicare Medicaid. Okay. That's very good question. It does not. And is because those are considered to be transfer payments. And we'll talk about those in detail a little bit later in this chapter. But that, but that's a very good question because that isn't actually a good and service produced by the government. And, and we'll, we'll get into those details much more important. Much later. Weapons. The, often the government actually buys weapons from private companies. So it's not typically produced by the government. But other examples. So you're actually participating in a service being produced by the state of California right now, can you figure out what that is? At UK education? Yes. Now, you guys have to pay for at least part of it. But if you think of say, public schools, public schools like K through 12, kindergarten through 12th grade, things like that. All right. Those are goods and services produced by the government. Now, these are counted in GDP. Okay? So home production was not counted in GDP. Goods and services produced by the government are counted. But how do they count them up? There's no market price typically for these things, for say, kindergarten through 12 education, what they do is they, they measured the value by the cost, right, rather than the market price. So for example, if you want to figure out the value for GDP of K through 12 education, you would add up all the salaries and the teachers and the staff, and the cost of the buildings and the cost of the materials. And then you would say that's the GDP that spending contributed by governments to, to, to the national GDP that, that's a part of GDP contributed by the government there. Okay? So home production's not counted in GDP. Goods and services produced by governments are Canada and GDP. And then all the other goods sold on markets are counted as GDP. Okay? But actually we didn't say all goods and services. We said final. Alright, let's figure out why. Okay? Suppose we have an economy that produces $4 thousand worth of iron ore. But that iron ore has turned into steel, which once it's all put together, becomes $8 thousand worth of steel. And let's suppose that there's a tire factory that produces $1000 worth of tires. And that the steel and the tires go into a car along with say some other things. That becomes a $20 thousand car. Alright? Now, should we say that the contribution, I'll just put that GDP is 4 thousand plus 8 thousand plus 1 thousand plus 20 thousand. Should we just add all those up there? That's the market value. No, no, everybody say no good. Why? Confine your comping that Ahmadiyya and dwight? Yes. Thank you. I mean, you can make the pie exactly the output on the market? Absolutely. No, because we would be double counting. Ok, so if you looked at that iron ore, if you counted it as raw and then as the steel and then also the card in that case you'd be triple counting. All right? In this case, because all those other goods went into this car, you would, GDP would only be the $20 thousand car. Because that is the final good. And in this case, it's sold to consumers or it could be sold to a business if, if it were a rental car agency. Okay? Because the value of those integrals, but we're going to call intermediate goods will to find that shortly are embedded in that car. And we, and we don't want to count things twice. Okay? So final versus intermediate goods and services. Final goods and services are the end product of a process. Intermediate goods and services are produced on the way to making the final good, but are used up and making the final good. That was the example, the iron ore which was used up in order to make the steel. And steel was used up in order to make the car. So in order not to double count, we only count final goods in GDP or use value-added, as we'll explain shortly. Okay? Now note some goods are used as both Final goods and enter intermediates. Just depends on that particular use. Can anybody think of a good that would both be an intermediate good and a final good would be think. Yes, what is definitely an intermediate? Oh, lots of it, yes, flower. Okay. Good point. So flaps flowers. A great example, particularly during the covert here. Okay, so if flower is sold to a bakery, that then bakes bread and sells it to consumers. Alright, that flowers and intermediate good. Cuz it was sold to another firm that then used in the production process to make the bread. If the flower is sold directly to the consumer, it is a final good. Alright? So we know consumers will use that to actually do some of their home production. But remember that's not counted in GDP. So flower sold to the consumer is a final good. Flour soul to a bakery is an intermediate good. Okay. And there was a big shift. So what happened during Cove it in terms of the shift of sales of flour, if you might have read about it, particularly during the initial locked down. Okay. There was a run on flower you could barely find in the grocery store. Shelves are empty because everybody was worried about food shortages. So people were stocking up on flour and other staples ticket by just in case there were food shortages. Everybody started baking bread, yes, and bread machines were also, are a lot of those sold two. Alright, so that's intermediate goods versus final goods. Alright? And some goods can play either roll. You speak it, just so that I don't confuse. The better way to say this as either, oops, sorry. Has either final goods and intermediate. It wouldn't be at the same time, BUT okay. So it can be used to either. Right now there's a special Good call, a capital good. Alright? What do I mean by capital good? This is a long lived good meeting. It lasts a long time. That is itself produced and it's used to produce other goods and services. So that last part sounds like an intermediate good. Examples of capital goods are factories, machines, houses, and apartments, which produce dwelling services. By the way, that's what housing and apartments do. Now capital goods, even though they slowly depreciate over time, we don't really consider them as being used up in production like that iron ore was or the steel was. So we count newly produce capital goods has final goods. And that's the way you national income and product accounts standards were set up. They had to think hard before deciding this, but it actually makes the most sense. But it's also one of the harder, harder things to remember. So just remember a capital good is a final good. Unlike an intermediate good that's used up completely in the product, in a production process for some other good. Okay? Yes, a new factory built is a final good that contributes to GDP. When it's built. Yes, so capital goods are only counted once when they were first produced. However, they will see veil. They'll contribute indirectly to production later because they will be combined with labor to produce new goods. Alright, so it's a little bit tricky there, but, but it went when we say, if a factory is being built, you know, is, does that contribute to GDP or a new factories built? Yes, it's, it's the new factory and contributing to final goods directly right? Now. So the basic principle we've established is don't double count goods and services. When measuring GDP. Now to avoid double counting, adding up only final goods is actually only one solution. And there's another solution that is used in practice. And that's because it's difficult, because some goods take time to produce. And we want to somehow record that some part of production was being produced even though it didn't come out as a finished product at the end. That's we often use an alternative way, which is to add up something called value added of each firm in the production process. Alright, so let's have a definition. Value-added for firm. Value-added for particular firm is the market value of its product or service, minus the cost of inputs purchased from other firms, minus the cost of inputs purchased from other firms. What do I mean here? When I say cost of inputs purchased from other firms? I mean, just to say, I don't want to write. Okay. Huh? Here I mean, raw materials, electricity, business services. If you hire an accountant for your business, you subtract that from the mark, your revenue or market value of what you sell or rent for buildings. If you rank your building, senior office building, you subtract that rant, leased equipment. If you lease a car, say, for your business to deliver something. Those are examples of things that are inputs purchased from other firms that you subtract from the market value of your product or service. Okay? However, do not subtract payments to labor, which means say, wages and salaries, or the cost of purchasing equipment and buildings. All right. Why is that? It is the labor and capital. That create the value added. So if you look at, say, all the raw materials. So for example, suppose that you're thinking about bread. We all are probably getting hungry. Now. You're thinking about Brad and say they bought the flour and they pay electricity for the oven and all of that. But if you look at the amount that they pay on electricity in the Mount, they pay for flour, price at which they sell the bread is, is higher. Okay. Well, why is that? It's because they were able to take those raw materials of electricity and flour, I guess some water and some yeast. And they use their bakers, which is their labor. And they use their oven. Suppose they own their own oven. They use their oven together with their bakers to add value to the raw flower and the role yeast. Okay? So it's the labour and the capital that create the value added. Right? Now as a little side note, okay? If they rented their oven from somebody else, then that value-added rupee counted at the other firms. So, so that is why I say if you rent something, you subtract that as an input that you just purchased as a service that you purchase from another firm, okay? If you own the own capital, then that value-added gets contributed by the firm who owns the capital. Alright? So each piece of capital is going to contribute value-added. But which firm we assign it to will depend on whether they own did or they rented it out. Alright, Let's do an example. The value added of a pizzeria. Okay, suppose a pizzeria cells $2 thousand worth of pizza in a day. And they had the following items with the cost, $400 for cheese, tomatoes, and flower, a $100 for gas, electricity, $7,000 for their bakers matches. They use their own pizza oven that they bought for $6 thousand and the profits are 800. So here's the question. What is the value added of the pizzeria? Think about that. Let's see if I can open a poll. Who came right up? Can you, okay, if I launch the polling, let's see if you can see it. Can you guys see the poll split? Ok, so go ahead and choose an answer. Okay, so let's see how do I show you poll. Can you guys see the results of the poll? You can't see that, right? You could just see the questions right now, okay? Alright, so I take a few more seconds to do a vote if you want. You know, none of this is great and it's great to have you respond because of the classes. I'm going to end the polling. 54321. Hurry up and I can share results. Good. It tells me that you're seeing that, alright, we have somebody, at least a few people answer each of them. The one that got the most answers was 50-100 to somebody. You want to explain why they thought it was 1300? I'll go yet. So the total the total. And then you get per day it's $2 thousand. And you don't subtract bakers wages because that's a labor and you'd also don't subtract the cost of the oven because they already have that. So you just subtract the ingredients and the electricity and gas because you purchasing them from another another firm. Exactly. Perfect answer. Alright. The reason it's not 800. So remember that the profits, right, 100. Well, how our profits different value-added. When you compute profits, you're taking your revenue or market value what you produce, subtracting all your costs, including what you have to pay for your, to your employees. Alright? So profits are different from value added. Because with value-added, You do not subtract out what you pay your employees because that's part of value-added. Alright, so the people who, who, the second most common answer was the 800, a mistake there was subtracting the $7,000 through Baker's reaches. Alright, so there's a difference between profits and value-added question. Alright, good. Stock share thoughts. Okay, well that's perfect. We are finished the class for now and we will pick up with the next slide on Friday. And I I can answer a few questions after class. I apologize, I can't answer too many because I, I need to shut this down and then re, then open up the 11 AM lecture. And by the way of people join a lecture late. As long as Billy lectures are extinct, which they aren't quite seen this time. But to today's hopefully will be sinc. You're always welcome to join the 11:00 AM lectured, pick up on something that you missed. Okay. Alright. So see you on Friday. Professor, My Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Professor. Hi. Question reads. And inside nine, Slide nine. Ok. And I guess the bottom one, we count newly produce capital goods as final goods. What's the example of that? Ok, so if we, let's say, for example, if a new factory is produced, alright? Are you just say there's a a computer is produced and is sold to a business. Hi, that computer will be counted as a final good that year, that it was produce can. Whereas if a good was up, let's see if a bunch of iron ore was produced. That wouldn't be counted as a final good that your we'd have to wait. We'd either have to look at value-added or we just have to wait until it was embodied in a final good. And then that final good would be counted. Not iron ordered. Is capital good the same as intermediate? No, no, they are different. The intermediate goods are used up completely in the production process. So another example of an intermediate good that can also be a final good is corn. If, if a farmer buys corn and feeds it to its pigs, that corn is an intermediate good and it's not counted as GDP. If instead corn is sold to a consumer, corn on the cob, then that's counted as a final good. So for example, like there's a new business and they build their own factory. Do they count the factory unlike the first year of building it and then guess years, not anymore. That's correct. So they would count that factory will first year that they built it? Yes. Thank you. As a newly produced calculable. Good. Prussia. Sir, I have a question about the Tang and the only thing. Yes. So what do we subtract from our own Lake market value if we're renting it as opposed to oh, named. Okay. If if we're renting it, we subtract out the rent repaid. Ok. Just starts don't consider a building that is rented to us. All right, then if we're trying to calculate our value-added, we are going to subtract out the ramp that repeat that building. Now come supposed that company a is a is a company that owns buildings. So it's fair building and a rented out to other people. Pray, the value added of that building to overall GDP will appear as part of their value added. Okay? So they want subtract out the fact that they owned that building because it's part of their value added. So, so B, building rental company creates value added by having some labor who helps with the management of the building and the physical and the building they own themselves. So that's their value-added, whatever they charge for it minus, you know, any other little inputs that go in there. So it'll be subtracted out from the pizzeria if they rent the building. But it won't be subtracted out. Building rental company. So we didn't really consider it gets counted once and if not my own net, then nothing. We don't subtract and we don't have to subtract it out because we were the owners and so we attribute that building's value added to our our value-add. Okay, thank you, Professor. Republican. I I'm professor. Yeah, hi. So I shouldn't logistical question. In regards to inflation. What are some of the ways maybe like with the Federal Reserve, how do they counteract inflation? And I guess on the other side, how do the ketonic deflation and what it is we are going to talk a lot about that, but not show the final third of the course. Okay, that will be chapter. We will hint at it along the way because we'll be talking about current events. But by really understanding that won't Europeans know Missing Chapter 26, I think. 26th I think because when, when you're going to be talking about that. So you'll have you'll have to be patient and we'll get to that. Sorry. It's fine. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. So I will see you guys on Friday. I'm going to stop share and and and see you on Friday night. Well, your grocer. Thank you.