 Gennaka Valarao: Hi Professor, I had a question here. Gennaka Valarao: Um, I was wondering if it was possible. If you could post the answers to the discussion questions so that during this weekend we could practice and then check our answers. Valerie A Ramey: We've never done that in the past. Valerie A Ramey: Because those discussion questions or or for our for discussion sections. Valerie A Ramey: I will look into it. In any case, one of the things as you can see from here I have given you practice econ three midterm and then I will be posting the answers later. So then you can check there. So you have plenty of questions to work through there. Valerie A Ramey: So the discussion section questions are Gennaka Valarao: Are Valerie A Ramey: For the benefit of people go into discussion sections, who want to look at it beforehand. Valerie A Ramey: That's the whole idea of those Gennaka Valarao: Thank you. Valerie A Ramey: Alright, so let's get started. Valerie A Ramey: A couple things. So first of all, Valerie A Ramey: Previously I had intended to cover the what was called a chapter 1819 compounding notes for the first midterm, as I did in previous years, I'm Valerie A Ramey: Not going to be able to get through that before the first midterm. So that's why I changed the title of those notes to chapter 19 so they will be after the first midterm and I've indicated that Valerie A Ramey: There's a bunch of information about the midterm here please look at this carefully. Some of the stuff is rebuy so for example with between meetings with teachers and stuff. And we decided that Valerie A Ramey: The grade scope is not a good idea for the first midterm, because, well, first of all, there aren't really Valerie A Ramey: Any graph questions that are key to things, and some of the people had problems already on the homework trying to upload those so Valerie A Ramey: We think you guys need a little bit more practice before you get that, so everything will be delivered and answered on canvas. And the short answer questions will be ones that you just type into Canvas. OK. Valerie A Ramey: And then so go ahead and read this on your own. And any questions that you have. Over the weekend, you can send to the Gmail account and then also I can answer questions for on Wednesday, but I do want to be able to get through. Valerie A Ramey: Enough material today so that you can do with the problem set to our homework, too. Okay. Alright, so let me stop that share and I'm now going to go back into the Valerie A Ramey: Lecture Notes Just shoot Valerie A Ramey: Over Valerie A Ramey: My mouse going a little weird. Okay, there we are. And I bring up the chat. Valerie A Ramey: Sounds like a wild silence. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so, um, Valerie A Ramey: I wanted to do one thing first. And before we go back to where we were talking about inflation adjustment. When I was teaching the 11 o'clock I suddenly realized I hadn't written one thing on this page, which is slide 13 slide 13 on the old Valerie A Ramey: Slides and slide 13 on the new ones. So remember when we talked about this. We talked about inflation rate is positive inflation rate is negative than the price levels falling and what I wanted to write here is that this is called deflation. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Deflation is when the inflation rate is negative. Alright so that was a term I put and I remember I had written hyperinflation here. I remember to do that. Valerie A Ramey: But I had forgot to put deflation in the other part. Okay, so I want to make sure you have that terminology Valerie A Ramey: Alright, so we're going to go back to adjusting for inflation, remember we had discussed Valerie A Ramey: The way that you think about adjusting for inflation. And I said, in general, nominal amount equals real amount times the price level. So, of course, that means that real Valerie A Ramey: Equals nominal Valerie A Ramey: Divided by the price level, which we indicate by p. And that's what we use. Valerie A Ramey: For variety and also note that the real amount is always in units of the base year dollars, where the base here refers to the base year of the price level index. So I change this part of the bottom a little bit to clarify. I saw a lot of confused faces. Valerie A Ramey: In the 10 o'clock, and then I didn't even get too far past this in the 11 o'clock, while I was doing a little bit and then I decided, You know, I'm not going to skip that step I'm going to do it first, like the book does it and then show you how to do the additional step. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so going to our example. Remember we are looking at us median household income, which was 30,000 in 1990 and 69,000 2019. And remember, those are nominal Valerie A Ramey: Income. Valerie A Ramey: All right. Those are the in the dollars. Those are in the dollars of the year in which the income occurred. Valerie A Ramey: Alright, so we want to see did income rise in real terms, meaning, can the current median income buy more goods now. Valerie A Ramey: That's why we really care about comparing things in real terms because we care about purchasing power. So we need to adjust nominal income for purchasing power meaning adjust for inflation and we use the CPI to do this. Valerie A Ramey: Right, so we've got our 30,000 in 1990 and our 69,000 and 2019 here's a CPI, the base years 2010 so that's why it's equal to one in 2010 but we also have it for 1990 and we have it for 2019 Valerie A Ramey: So to compare real income in 1992 real income in Valerie A Ramey: If you don't care which year you use to put the dollars in all that matters. If they're both in the same dollars, then we just come Burt the nominal and comes to real incomes stayed in that senior scholars. So, for example, Valerie A Ramey: What we would do remember real Valerie A Ramey: Equals nominal Valerie A Ramey: Divided by that price index. Alright, so for 1990 real income. Valerie A Ramey: We would take the nominal amount 30,000 and what would we divide it by Valerie A Ramey: The price index in that you point six and that gives us Valerie A Ramey: 50,000 Valerie A Ramey: Okay, now what the book doesn't tell you. And it's important to keep track of so that you can actually do Valerie A Ramey: You know, real world problems here is that this is stated Valerie A Ramey: In Valerie A Ramey: $2,010 Valerie A Ramey: Okay, why do we know that because point six is sorry because Valerie A Ramey: These price indexes are relative to a base year of 2010 Valerie A Ramey: Similarly for Yvette Song: What are we doing Valerie A Ramey: Real income. Valerie A Ramey: You simply take the nominal Valerie A Ramey: Divided by the price index. Valerie A Ramey: And that is equal to 58,974 and again that is in $2,010 Valerie A Ramey: This implies so we put them both in the same dollars we've adjusted for inflation, we can now compare these real incomes, this implies real income. Valerie A Ramey: Increased by 17.9% Valerie A Ramey: How do we figure that out. We simply take the percent change from 50,000 to 58,974 Valerie A Ramey: So that's how the book does it. That is perfectly fine. If you're just trying to see if real income changed over time. Valerie A Ramey: Right. There's nothing incorrect about this. Valerie A Ramey: Alright so increased by 17.9% remember that because we're going to do it slightly differently now alright so that's how the book does it Valerie A Ramey: But suppose you don't want to put everything in $2,010. All right. And if you're on a job, they're not going to want to see things in $2,010 or whatever the the base year for the CPI is. And as you'll see from the book. And I think in a few slides, the BLS CPI base years Valerie A Ramey: You know, that was ages ago that was the last millennium and suppose you want to know what 1990 median income was in today's dollars are saying this example. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so we had that same CPI, but often we're just given somebody else decides what the base year is okay. So how did we do this one. Another years the base year but we want to see it in 2019 Valerie A Ramey: So this was what I was teaching you before. All right, it's easy, what all we have to do is multiply 1990 income by the ratio of the CPI and Valerie A Ramey: To the CPI 1990 Okay. Valerie A Ramey: The rationale, which I gave you before is that the ratios of CPI can be used like an exchange rate they help you convert those 19 $90 to $2,019 Valerie A Ramey: So we take CPI and Valerie A Ramey: Divided by CPI 1990 Valerie A Ramey: And then remember we had talked about the unit those things were in. So the 2010 cancels and we get 2019 over 1990 which is 1.95 okay and 1.95 Valerie A Ramey: Index. Valerie A Ramey: Means Valerie A Ramey: Prices Valerie A Ramey: In Valerie A Ramey: Were Valerie A Ramey: 95% higher Valerie A Ramey: Than Valerie A Ramey: In 1990 Valerie A Ramey: Because it's 1.17 divided by point six and we know what we have a growth factor like that. That's a growth factor to figure out the percent subtract one multiply by 100 that's how we got 95%. Okay, so minus one. Valerie A Ramey: Times 100% Valerie A Ramey: Why would I did, I Valerie A Ramey: Why did you say, why would you do 1.17 2.6. That's what I did. Valerie A Ramey: It's 1.17 divided by point six equals 1.95 Valerie A Ramey: Did I right. No, I'm telling you the units there. Sorry. But, good question, because other people might have been confused. Valerie A Ramey: But it's good. So I did want to write 1.16 over point six there is that everybody's clear Valerie A Ramey: And clean that up a bit. Valerie A Ramey: This is what I intended to you guys should know percentages by now. Valerie A Ramey: Alright. So plugging that in 1.17 overall point six because that's a CPI in 2018 divided by the CPI in 1990 equals 1.95 Valerie A Ramey: Andrew yes yes to your question did prices really almost double over the 30 years. Yes, they did. One of the things that I had hoped to do Valerie A Ramey: Before for material in the first midterm that we won't get to is talking about that power of compounding, even if the inflation rate is relatively low each year, it compounds and so you if you go over 30 years you get this really big effect. Valerie A Ramey: So you'll understand that very clearly, because I might even start those those notes, next Wednesday, even though they won't be on the midterm. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so, um, let's then use this for our not a nominal incomes, which we have done so I want to compare Valerie A Ramey: In $2,019 rather than those $2,010. So what I do is I take 30,000 Valerie A Ramey: And multiply by CPI in Valerie A Ramey: Over CPI in 1990 Valerie A Ramey: And that's going to be equal to 30,000 Valerie A Ramey: Times 1.95 that's going to be equal to 58,500 okay that is in $2,019 okay Valerie A Ramey: Now what does that mean that means that Valerie A Ramey: To buy their mouth that 30,000 income could buy in 1992 by that same basket in Valerie A Ramey: You would need 58,500 income. Alright, so we've now convert it to $2,019 Valerie A Ramey: Now, what do we need to do with the 69,000 Valerie A Ramey: We don't have to do anything. It's already in $2,019. Exactly. So, I mean, if you wanted to. Valerie A Ramey: Be really specific, you would just say, oh, well I converted that by multiplying by one. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: All right, you don't really need to do that. Valerie A Ramey: Well, you raise that Valerie A Ramey: Okay that is already Valerie A Ramey: In $2,019 Valerie A Ramey: Okay, let's look at the percent change them. Valerie A Ramey: 69,000 Valerie A Ramey: Over 58,500 Valerie A Ramey: Minus one is 0.179 which implies an increase in real income of 7.9% Valerie A Ramey: So notice the percent change and real income. Valerie A Ramey: Is the same whatever price index, whether we put it in 1998 or $2,010 or we put it in $2,019 and if we wanted to, we could have instead taken the income converted it back to 1990 and done the comparison and we would have gotten the same answer. Valerie A Ramey: So for simply looking at the percent change in real income. It doesn't matter which you base your you use, you're going to get the same answer. Valerie A Ramey: Professor, yes. Atmik Das: For the midterm will we be asked specifically to use a particular base here to calculate or can we just use any approach. Valerie A Ramey: No, I will tell you what to do. Yeah. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Unless, I say, for example, if I could say, how much did real income change between 1990 and 2019 I wouldn't tell you which base year to us and it wouldn't matter because everybody should get the same result. No matter which base year they used Valerie A Ramey: By I can ask you a question. How much was that in $2,019 and you'll see from some of these problems. We're going to do right now. Why, that's an interesting question or two, you know, 20 $20 or 20 $21 Atmik Das: Okay. Valerie A Ramey: And I put this there. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Here's inflation. Inflation adjustment practice problem. All right. This shows you, you don't necessarily need Valerie A Ramey: The actual values of the CPI to adjust for inflation, right. See if you can solve the following problem so wages and manufacturing. These are actual numbers were $14 and 32 cents per hour $2,022 and 14 cents in 2019 Valerie A Ramey: The CPI increased 48.5% from the year 2002 2019 that is if you take CPI. Valerie A Ramey: Divided by the CPI in 2000 you would get 1.485 and we know that when we take that ratio. We know that the percent is minus one times 100. Okay, so what are the wages of manufacturing in 2000 express in $2,019 and did those real wages, Bryce. Valerie A Ramey: And I think I have a poll for this. Yes. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: So I'm just asking you the first one here because it's multiple choice, just on the first one and then we'll Linda Shen: Figure the other out. Valerie A Ramey: Good job, guys. Valerie A Ramey: I'm impressed you for for given all of those confused looking faces on Wednesday. Valerie A Ramey: You guys are nailing this one. Valerie A Ramey: For 321 All right. Valerie A Ramey: 87% got it right. Okay, what they did was just use that factor. They took manufacturing wages in the year 2000 Valerie A Ramey: And multiplied it by that ratio of Cp is 1.485 okay Valerie A Ramey: Now, intuitively, Valerie A Ramey: What you're seeing is $2,019 we have to multiply those $2,000 by 40 you know 48.5% and that's equal to 21.27 Valerie A Ramey: Did real wages rise. Yes, because Valerie A Ramey: That amount is less than the wages in 2019 stated in $2,019. This is 2000 Valerie A Ramey: Wages Valerie A Ramey: In Valerie A Ramey: Dollars. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Let's do another inflation adjustment problem. Okay, so these are actual numbers. So as I said, the CPI published by the BLS actually has Valerie A Ramey: I guess is the base year sometimes. Sometimes, it says at for African anyway. What are the inflation adjusted ticket sales for the original Star Wars, which was related in 1977 up stated in $2,019 Kind of pull for this. Valerie A Ramey: So I want you to tell me so Star Wars earn 775.4 in the original Valerie A Ramey: Amounts and Valerie A Ramey: You need to figure out what that isn't $2,019 Valerie A Ramey: Good job. Valerie A Ramey: Okay so 54321 Valerie A Ramey: You guys are nailing this okay so everybody figured out, you take the her almost everybody Valerie A Ramey: Mount in 1977 and to convert it to $2,019 you simply multiply it by the CPI in Valerie A Ramey: Divided by the CPI in 1977 and that is equal to 3276 million Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Now, Valerie A Ramey: So let's compare Valerie A Ramey: This 3000 to 76 million that's in $2,019 Dollars. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, we're going to compare that to how much the rise of Skywalker. Valerie A Ramey: And it's pretty clear that Valerie A Ramey: The force. Valerie A Ramey: Was stronger. Valerie A Ramey: In 1977 Valerie A Ramey: That movie made a lot more money. Valerie A Ramey: So you can now do this comparison. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Yeah, by the way, I'm really impressed you guys just heard you know you got it right away and you seem to understand. So I'm very happy about that. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Suppose you start a job in 2020 earning $50,000 suppose your employer rights into your contract that you will automatically get what are called cost of living adjustments equivalent Lee, we would call that indexing your salary to inflation. Valerie A Ramey: Supposed to CPI turns out as follows. How much should your employer pay you in 2022 to keep up with inflation. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so let's look at that CPI ratio. Valerie A Ramey: Okay 2.7 Valerie A Ramey: Divided by 2.57 Valerie A Ramey: That's equal to 1.051 okay Valerie A Ramey: What does that imply the inflation rate was over the two years from 2022 2022 Valerie A Ramey: You can just put it in the chat or call it now. Valerie A Ramey: 5.1 yes implies 5.1% inflation. Valerie A Ramey: Over the two years. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so what that means is to keep up with inflation. Valerie A Ramey: Your employer. Valerie A Ramey: Needs. Valerie A Ramey: To pay you. Valerie A Ramey: 5.1% more Valerie A Ramey: In 2022 Valerie A Ramey: So we'll take that 50,000 Valerie A Ramey: Number. This is how much you were earning in 2020 Valerie A Ramey: And we're going to multiply it by 1.051 because that says take that 50,000 base and add another 5.1% Valerie A Ramey: And that gives you 52,550 to keep up with inflation. Right. Valerie A Ramey: So even if this is your last ECON class, you know, if you're not going to be econ major Valerie A Ramey: I've taught you enough so your employer can't fool you, and decrease your real income. Valerie A Ramey: This keeps Valerie A Ramey: Your real Valerie A Ramey: Constant. Valerie A Ramey: over that time period. Valerie A Ramey: If your employer. Valerie A Ramey: Didn't do it cost of living adjustment, what would happen to your real income if if your employer catch your salary at 50,000 Valerie A Ramey: How would your real income in 2022 compared to your real income in 2020 Valerie A Ramey: You would drop. Yes. Everybody understand that good. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, you're not know how to adjust nominal effects for the effects of inflation, I have to say that performance on that pole is like those two poles are some of the best in the class. That's great. I mean, it's a best in the quarter. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Valerie A Ramey: We are now doing some biases and the official measure of inflation, does the CPI measure true inflation. Okay, this is a very, very important issue. Valerie A Ramey: Because significant amounts of government spending our link to the CPI, for example, Social Security checks have cost of living increases and those costs of living in necessarily cost of living increases are based on the CPI. Valerie A Ramey: So there are some biases in the CPI. So just to say the people at the Bureau of Labor Statistics that puts together the CPI. Valerie A Ramey: Are just tremendous and do a great job, but it is just really challenging in a complex economy to accurately measure inflation. So there are two. And by the way, I recommend up. Be sure to read the textbook on this too. Valerie A Ramey: Because they just talked about this in more detail than I have time to do here. Okay. The first is quality adjustment bias. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Let's, let's talk about computers. Valerie A Ramey: In when I was hired in 1987 Valerie A Ramey: By 386 with four megabytes of RAM. Valerie A Ramey: And 30 megabytes of hard disk space. Valerie A Ramey: hard disk space. Valerie A Ramey: Cost Valerie A Ramey: $5,000 the department bought it for me was a big fancy computer. The three basics right Valerie A Ramey: If you say if you spent $5,000 on a computer. Now, you would have so much more in there. Right. So the question is, how do you adjust for that quality. Another example is automobiles, where it's a little bit clearer. All right, the price of automobiles. Valerie A Ramey: tends to rise. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, how much Valerie A Ramey: Is inflation. Valerie A Ramey: Versus increase quality. Valerie A Ramey: That's the really hard problem, the BLS has to sort out okay so car prices go up over time because the cars tend to be safer over time they have more gadgets in them. Valerie A Ramey: They run, they're less likely to break down all those sorts of things. So the BLS has to figure out how much they increase in prices just inflation just higher prices for the same good Valerie A Ramey: Versus how much is because the quality actually increased and if it was a quality increase if increase quality. Valerie A Ramey: It shouldn't count. Valerie A Ramey: As inflation. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Now, the BLS does the best job. It can, but a number of people says that this leads to an over estimate Valerie A Ramey: The rate of inflation. Valerie A Ramey: Because they haven't fully accounted for. Valerie A Ramey: How much is due to increase quality. Valerie A Ramey: A second bias is commodity substitution bias. And this is pretty easy to Valerie A Ramey: Understand if Econ one, when you looked at a consumer making decisions about how much to spend on several goods. Valerie A Ramey: What happened, typically, when the price of a particular good increase how to consumers respond Valerie A Ramey: They tended to decrease their demand for that good and the amount by which they decrease it depend on dependent on how many close substitutes. There were okay so think about the following. Suppose Valerie A Ramey: The price. Valerie A Ramey: Of peanut butter. Valerie A Ramey: Increases Valerie A Ramey: Consumers Valerie A Ramey: Might Valerie A Ramey: Substitute Valerie A Ramey: This is the substitution light substitute into say almond bread, butter that's typically more expensive. But let's suppose it isn't. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: The CPI. Valerie A Ramey: Uses Valerie A Ramey: A fixed Valerie A Ramey: Basket of goods. Valerie A Ramey: So it doesn't Valerie A Ramey: Account for Valerie A Ramey: Might appear the ability Valerie A Ramey: To substitute Valerie A Ramey: To less expensive goods. Valerie A Ramey: When the price. Valerie A Ramey: Of one good prices. Valerie A Ramey: So remember, so why did we keep the basket fixed and the CPI was a good reason because we wanted to measure changes and prices without letting quantities change. Valerie A Ramey: But the downside of that is it when we're trying to compute what's happened to the cost of living. We're not taking into account. Valerie A Ramey: That consumers when prices of one thing goes up, they could actually substitute into other goods. Right. So this also let me write this read this page. So this also leads to an over so didn't Valerie A Ramey: Inflation Valerie A Ramey: So these are two items that are two biases that would lead us to expect it doesn't account for what it doesn't account for. Look at the top of the page. Wherever Christopher. It doesn't account for. Go to the top of the page, the ability to substitute to less expensive. Valerie A Ramey: I ran out of space at the bottom. Valerie A Ramey: Is there any bias that underestimate. Valerie A Ramey: There could be Valerie A Ramey: In principle, but but typically the ones that people focus on are the overestimates All right. Valerie A Ramey: Now I'm going to keep track of his changes in the price level versus changes and what we call relative prices when we talk about inflation, we are talking about the percent change in the general price level or average level of prices of the economy. Valerie A Ramey: As sometimes we talk about changes in a relative prices. What is around. What do we mean by relative prices. Well, this is the change in one price relative to another or a change in one price relative to the average level prices. Valerie A Ramey: An example of a good that often has changes in relative prices is say the price of gasoline. Valerie A Ramey: How does some How did somebody just draw on. That's really weird. Valerie A Ramey: But how can somebody draw on my Valerie A Ramey: thing to say. Valerie A Ramey: Is it because Niha Bhaskar (she/her): They're a co host Valerie A Ramey: How does that happen. Katie Yang: In an annotate button so inhaling the option you can annotate on the screen. Valerie A Ramey: Oh really, okay, but it shows it for everybody else. Yeah. Niha Bhaskar (she/her): As a host. So you can turn that off in the settings. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, that's Valerie A Ramey: I'll look into that later because Valerie A Ramey: You know, we don't want any zoom bomb annotations. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Valerie A Ramey: So, what was I doing so the price of gasoline is relative price relative to the general price level is something that changes a lot so let P subscript gas in the price of a gallon of gasoline. Valerie A Ramey: Then the relative price of gasoline has risen if P gas divided by p, where p is the average level prices rises. Valerie A Ramey: And in some later chapters will talk about relative price of a firm say firm number eyes output. And we'll just to know that by price. Valerie A Ramey: subscript i divided by price. Okay, so there's a difference between the rise of the general price level versus the rise in one goods prices relative to other great Valerie A Ramey: OK. So the cost of inflation, read the textbook on this. Alright, so you just need to look at that, and in particular to note Valerie A Ramey: Note that distinction between the price level and relative prices. Valerie A Ramey: And then also took the true cost of inflation. Okay, the distortions that are put in the economy and the redistribution of wealth. Okay, so that's important. It's just, it's straightforward. I don't have time to cover it in slides, but to read the textbook on there. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Some examples of hyperinflation. Valerie A Ramey: Right here are some of the highest monthly inflation rates in history and this Steve hanky is sort of one of the big experts on hyperinflation, so Valerie A Ramey: The highest ever was hungry in July 1946 right after World War two, where the monthly inflation rate was 1.3 times 10 to the 16th. That's a lot of zeros. Valerie A Ramey: Prices doubled every 15 hours as somebody was amazed that prices could have doubled over almost doubled over 30 years. Can you imagine every 15.6 hours. Valerie A Ramey: It's done for all of the goods. That's what happens when you have hyperinflation all the prices start rising Zimbabwe mid November 2008 there a highest monthly inflation rate was Valerie A Ramey: 79 point 6,000,000,000% Valerie A Ramey: Prices doubled every 24.7 hours Yugoslavia 94 and in Germany. That's very famous October 20 1923 Valerie A Ramey: Their prices doubled every 3.7 days. And as we know, the economic dislocation caused by the hyperinflation is thought to been a contributing factor to the rise of the knots Valerie A Ramey: Now this isn't something that's just history. Valerie A Ramey: Here, you know, in 2008 life and Zimbabwe's hyperinflation. So there's this kid. His mother has sent him to go buy a few food items. And that's how much currency, he has to bring Valerie A Ramey: He has to pay 100 billion in Zimbabwean dollars per three eighths. Valerie A Ramey: Here's. Can you imagine getting this this bill at the end of your stay. Valerie A Ramey: You know at this hotel. Valerie A Ramey: Right. Valerie A Ramey: That's what hyperinflation looks like and bills. Valerie A Ramey: Venezuela, it's still suffering from hyperinflation. Okay, so this is as a year ago, but they're still having problems. Valerie A Ramey: Venezuela is the only country in the world that is suffering from the ravages of hyperinflation, just what is Venezuelans inflation rate. Today, the annual inflation rate is 10,398% per year. Valerie A Ramey: At the peak of their inflation, which occurred in January 2019. It took almost 15 days for prices to double Valerie A Ramey: If one measures disability BY THE DURATION THE hyperinflation. Then, as well as hyperinflation, which started in November of 2016 and has yet to end is severe Valerie A Ramey: It is lasted for 36 months and counting. There have only been two hyperinflation in history that have lasted longer than Venezuelans right Valerie A Ramey: We're going to talk about that. The case of Venezuela in Chapter 2019 chapter, Chapter Chapter 19 and then we will also talk about them again when we discuss what what causes inflation. Alright, so, Venezuela is a current hyperinflation. Valerie A Ramey: All right, let's talk about real versus nominal interest rates. This is great because I'll get through most of this, which lets you do homework over the weekend. Valerie A Ramey: Alright so nano interest rates that you see in the newspaper that your bank quotes. You mean the end those interest rates are nominal interest rates. Right. So these ones in the newspaper or that your bank tell you are nominal Valerie A Ramey: Those interest rates are expressed a nominal or current dollar values of an asset. Valerie A Ramey: Supposed to open $100 savings account in December 2020 if your bank pays you 5% interest then it pays you $5 interests and by the end by December 2021 you will have $105 in the bank. Right. That's how interest works. Valerie A Ramey: But what if inflation in 2021 turns out to be 10% meaning that the CPI in 2021 divided by the CPI in 2020 is 1.1 Valerie A Ramey: Remember we just take one plus the growth rate to get that factor. Valerie A Ramey: Oops. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: You Valerie A Ramey: Lost Valerie A Ramey: In real terms. Valerie A Ramey: Because the Valerie A Ramey: $105 Valerie A Ramey: Is now worth Valerie A Ramey: Only 105 divided by 1.1 Valerie A Ramey: Which equals 95.45 in last year's dollars. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: And notice this time i divided by the factor. It's only because I'm trying to compare it to last year's dollars. Alright, so I just did. So remember what we want to bring it to this year's dollars we multiply by the factor. Valerie A Ramey: If instead I want to compare it, which logically makes better to how how many dollars. I'd actually put in, and I want to adjust for inflation, I just compared it back. Alright. Valerie A Ramey: So what this means is $105 Valerie A Ramey: At the end Valerie A Ramey: Of Valerie A Ramey: buys less at that point in time, then Valerie A Ramey: The hundred you deposited Valerie A Ramey: In December 2020 Valerie A Ramey: So in real terms you lost by saving and putting your money in the bank and early only 5% interest when the inflation rate was 10% Valerie A Ramey: You would have been better off buying $100 worth of toilet paper and storing it for a year. Valerie A Ramey: Because at least you would have had, you know, all that toilet paper there, but instead you lost in real terms because the price of toilet paper went up more than the extra interest you are getting Valerie A Ramey: Does inflation affects your real returns Valerie A Ramey: Okay definition, the real interest rate is the annual percentage increase in the real purchasing power of a financial asset. It's also known as the real rate of return. Valerie A Ramey: Let's have some notation little i. So, this is really different from big guy. Because remember, big eyes always investment little i is the nominal or market interest rate. Valerie A Ramey: Little ours. The real interest rate and pie, the Greek letter pie stands for inflation rate in micro they use pie for profits in macro we always use pie for inflation, just the way it works. Okay, there is a relationship between these Valerie A Ramey: Which is Valerie A Ramey: The real interest rate is approximately equal to the nominal interest rate minus the inflation rate. Valerie A Ramey: Or you can say Valerie A Ramey: The nominal interest rate is approximately equal to that the squiggly line means approximate is equal to the real interest rate plus the inflationary Valerie A Ramey: Okay. So suppose you have a nominal interest rate of 5% Valerie A Ramey: And an inflation rate of 3% Valerie A Ramey: What is the real interest rate. 2% yes Valerie A Ramey: Approximately Valerie A Ramey: Okay, this works for smaller reasonable numbers this this approximation will not work for Venezuela, so don't use it there. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, I will do this I will probably do this later. This is just something for mathematical types. Valerie A Ramey: Because you can do it the accurate way or you could do the approximation. I told you, but I'll do that later because you don't need to know that. So a current interest rate on 10 year treasury bonds is just 1% per year in September 1981 it was 15.3% Valerie A Ramey: Why so much higher than Valerie A Ramey: Part of the reason is inflation. Inflation is currently running around 1.2% in 1981 inflation was 15% Okay. Valerie A Ramey: When someone lend you money. They care about the purchasing power of what they get back. Right. So that means. So think about Venezuela, if you let somebody a billion dollar believers. Valerie A Ramey: And charge just 10% interest with their hyperinflation, the hundred and 10 billion boulevards you have one year for now will be worth little in terms of the goods that combined Valerie A Ramey: So you're going to ask for a higher nominal interest rate or else you're not going to be willing to lend your funds to somebody Valerie A Ramey: In general, if inflation is higher lenders demand higher nominal interest rates in order to keep their real returns the same Valerie A Ramey: Something that's called the fisher effect, remember that because sometimes I'll say, you know, name the effect give the name of this particular effect and Valerie A Ramey: In previous years. A lot of people just couldn't remember that. And last year, I told people remember this. They did remember I'm telling you this year. Valerie A Ramey: Nominal entered the fisher effect is that nominal interest rates tend to be higher when inflation is higher. It's called the fisher effect because it has nothing to do with fishing. It's named for famous economist named Irving Fisher from the early 20th century. Valerie A Ramey: That may be why people get confused. I can see that for a multiple choice. I can attest to do with fishing poles and stuff has nothing to do with fishing poles. Valerie A Ramey: So the red line is the interest rate on one year treasury bills and the blue line is the inflation rate. And you can say, See, they don't move in lockstep. But in general, when the inflation rate is high, the nominal interest rate as high as well. Valerie A Ramey: And if you wanted to figure out from this graph what the real interest rate is you would just subtract the blue line from the red line. Valerie A Ramey: You can see something funny that can happen. Usually the real interest rate is positive, but sometimes it can be a little negative, we'll talk about that a little bit later. Valerie A Ramey: All right, we have run out of time, but Valerie A Ramey: I think I've taken you through enough that you'll be able to do it, you'll be able to complete the chapter 18. That's right. No lecture on Monday. That's why I'm trying to get through this so that you have time to work on the problems, um, let me just Valerie A Ramey: Yeah, this is a little bit what we're. I don't think there's one quite as complicated in the homework. In any case, well, we will work through these last couple things on Wednesday, then we will talk about current events about GDP current events about Valerie A Ramey: Inflation and then if there are time. I can go back in a sec, if there is time on Wednesday, which probably I will start some lecture notes that are for the second midterm. Okay, but Valerie A Ramey: Except for the for the last few items here and the current events that we'll talk about on Wednesday. This is all the material for the first midterm. Valerie A Ramey: Good. All right. So, have a good three day weekend and talk to you on Wednesday. And I'm happy to quickly answer some questions. Slide 33. All right. Oops. Valerie A Ramey: There we are. Yes. Valerie A Ramey: Thanks Bobby. So what was your question on slide 33 Fey Shen: Have question on page 18 why the real wages rises, because it is Fey Shen: And Fey Shen: $21 in Fey Shen: Yeah. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so you see that so real wage was 21 something in 2000 right and it was 22 something in 2019 Valerie A Ramey: Right, so that means the real wages higher in 2019 so that's why we say the real wage rose Fey Shen: Is international V like it goes, logically, so like to done Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so, so let me go back. Valerie A Ramey: One slide is that Fey Shen: At all right. Valerie A Ramey: Why am I not Valerie A Ramey: Are you sure it's a Valerie A Ramey: Here we are 20 because remember, I added some slides I announced. Okay. So remind me what the answers were because I Valerie A Ramey: In 2000. What was the Valerie A Ramey: What were 2000 wages expressed in $2,019 21.27 okay Valerie A Ramey: Somehow this will Valerie A Ramey: For some reason, this will not draw Valerie A Ramey: 20. Okay, good. Now 21.27 that was 2000 wages. Valerie A Ramey: In $2,019 Fey Shen: Okay, I know was Fey Shen: I look here, I thought, is to them. Valerie A Ramey: So no, I know it is confusing because we state things in your dollar. And then the wage is happened in a year. So, you know, we had the same confusion. Valerie A Ramey: Last year, and they convince me. I was wrong. But, but I went back and figured out. Oh no, I was right. And then I had to do it. So, so that's why I didn't let you confuse me again because a lot of us got confused last year. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. All right. Valerie A Ramey: So I need to Valerie A Ramey: Start up the next lecture. Fey Shen: So you didn't talk about the news. You want to talk about Valerie A Ramey: I'm going to do it on Wednesday. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Yeah, because I wanted to make sure I gave you guys enough up got through enough material so that you can do the chapter, or sorry, the homework. Number two, if you want to do it over the weekend, given the keys to Wednesday night. Andrea Lai: Hi Professor, I have a quick question. Sure. Um, so for the slide 33. How did you get the numbers for the I pie in our Valerie A Ramey: Oh, I picked them out of my head that I Andrea Lai: Oh, okay. Valerie A Ramey: I said, suppose Valerie A Ramey: Suppose interest rate is what was it 5% and inflation was 3%. What was the real interest rate. Andrea Lai: Okay, got it. Valerie A Ramey: During that quickly. Yeah. Andrea Lai: Okay. All right. Thank you. Yeah. Valerie A Ramey: No problem. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, I'm going to stop sharing Olivia Jusuf: Hi Professor, I have a question for homework one. See Valerie A Ramey: Okay, do you know I need to teach it at 11am so um if I don't, I don't have time to answer it right now. Valerie A Ramey: Well, Valerie A Ramey: 20 seconds at what what's the question. Olivia Jusuf: Um, do we still submit the third homework bill one see homework. Valerie A Ramey: Oh yeah, I got you. I gave people until Wednesday night to do that one. Just in case they were. It took him a while to figure out great scope. Olivia Jusuf: Okay, so this was a bit on great school. Great. Valerie A Ramey: Yes, yes. Oh, that's, that's what all of the instructions sake, and I gave, I gave people extra time for that. Okay, thank you. Okay. You're welcome.