 Okay. Oh, oh, right. Sorry about that. All right. Good morning everybody. Let's go ahead and get started. So the first thing I want to do is correct something on the notes that were Chapter 19, compound growth. I noticed in the 11 o'clock lecture that there was a typo that I somehow overlooked. And so that could be very, very confusing. So I posted revised ones already. I did that on Friday. And then I just wanted to point this out to you. Plus there were so many questions about the rule of 72, even though we were talking about that in the regular Chapter 19 part I. At the end of the slides, I gave you the mathematics for those who are interested. So the first thing is the slight six, when the previous version had typos and the heart that had the little growth rates. Okay? So the growth rate for B tissue, that growth, that variables should be some initial amount, b 0 times e to the GBT. So you should have a GB there and proceed you should ever GC there and pretty you should have a GET. And then this this part was correct. But I had some typos where I hadn't GA in there and all kinds of crazy stuff. So this is just for the mathematical types. I want to make sure that I have that correct. And as you know, you don't have to know this. This is just for for people who are interested in this. Okay. So so this is where the corrections occurred, okay? And I had failed to mention that this d 0 is just the starting value. And then it gets multiplied by this exponential quote term, which is x to the G D times t. Okay? Alright? And then just because it's more convenient not to change two sets of notes. So I just put the whole rule of 72 thing here, which we had seen in Chapter 19. And I kidded that people said, how does that work? And I couldn't, it was magic, but no, it's really math. And so here are all the steps if you're interested. The, it, it comes from trying to solve, solve this equation for t because why, you start with why? And then you want to end up with two times y. So this is times, okay. And so then you end up to solve that, you end up taking the natural log. And so this, what's involved here is the natural log of two. But again, you don't need to know this, but that's the background on the map there. Okay. So we have four we go into Chapter 19. Any questions on this part? And you should've seen that I posted a homework on Friday. I think that's due, I believe next Thursday at 1159. Okay. Alright. Let's go to chapter 19. And I think I'll start here from current. Okay? And reposition this. Appear to chat and trying to get enough faces so I actually see people out there. Okay, so remember that we were talking about, well, the point of this chapter is to figure out why is it that countries after centuries of not growing at all can suddenly take off and get on a sustained growth path. But house other countries don't ever get, don't seem to get on that path, are much slower on that path and we're trying to understand what's going on there. I remember we did some comparisons of countries and we looked at the Rule of 72 which figured out the doubling of income. And we did an application to, for example, China, which during its great growth was doubling its income almost ten years. And we want to understand how they manage to do that. Okay. So remember that we're, we're going back to talk about Thomas Malthus who had a very pessimistic prediction that if you had population growth, it would just lead to more misery. And so we want to understand that prediction and why it was wrong. Because there are really important economic principles, but also help us think about why it is that, that prediction was wrong and what can be done to improve country's growth prospects. Okay? So remember we hit, started reviewing the marginal product of labor and average labor productivity. And remember that the marginal product of labor is the extra amount of output you get. You add one worker. We also talked about the average labor productivity, which is just where you take the total output. Suppose your, your picky about workers harvesting crops. You can look at the total bushels of wheat divided by the number of workers, that would be average labor productivity. And that contrasts with marginal product of labor, which is when you add an extra worker to the field. Safe. Cousins, we're going to be talking about agriculture for awhile. How many extra bushels of wheat do you get from just adding that one extra worker? And remember that something that was very, very important was this law of diminishing returns. Okay. Which is that you come on. All right. Which is that for some reason my pen isn't just to check I need to on him is just working on the other one. I don't know why it's okay, let's try this again. I just introduced it to Apple again. Alright. Goodness this. Uh-huh. It's alright. Well at least we're ahead of the other class so we have time to their mess around with squiggles. Okay? I want to be blue. Okay? So the law of diminishing returns and this is really important. That's going to be key to understanding why Malthus made his prediction. Okay? So it's useful to talk about the relationship between helped put a labour input with the graph. Okay, so remember as labour input rises, output also rises. That means positive marginal product. We're assuming that you add another worker you will gets one output, but the amount of extra output you get will become less and less. Okay? So we had written down what we call a production function. So that's what that graph is called, a production function. This is so weird, I guess just keep turning off production. It will not. Well, I don't need to underline that, but anyway, let's hope, but the next page it will do. It's a graph of a production function which tells you how much output you get for certain level of inputs. In this case, we're putting labor input on the horizontal axis. So that could be, for example, the number of workers or the number of hours worked. And we're putting output on the vertical axis. Okay? Now, the marginal product of labor is greater at B, okay? And the way we know this is that the slope is flatter. Alright? I've gotta figure out how to get this out. You're going to want that. Uh-huh. Yes. Okay. This slope, remember I was saying is steeper. This is flatter. That means when it steeper, it means that if you get one more worker, that leads to a bigger increase in output compared to here. Alright? So that's capturing diminishing returns. And notice that we've drawn this as being concave to concave curve. Why is this thing? I wonder if my tip is abuse. Okay. So as I'm learning about Apple pencils, I defer used them before last quarter. I was doing a little bit with the grad students. Okay. So let's investigate now how average labor productivity changes as labour input increases. Okay? We care about that because remember that living standards, one of the ways we measure them as GDP per capita, GDP per person. So think of it, it an agricultural economy where most of what people are consuming is food. So Malthus was worried about how much food you had per person. Okay, so average labor productivity, how much could you produce and therefore how much food you have per person. Alright, so let's investigate how this changes as labour input increases. So what is the average labor productivity at a? Well, we take a line from the origin at 0 up to point a. And it's just the point a is equal to the slope of this straight line from 0 to a. Alright, that's average labor productivity. This is something you should have seen an econ one. I know that might have forgotten it. So that's why we're reviewing it and applying it to labor. Again. The average labor productivity at B. What we would do is we take the origin up to that point b, okay? And you can see that this light is flatter. Alright? So we get the same qualitative result that we had with marginal product of labor. Which is, as you add more and more workers, both the marginal product and the average labor product. Paul. Okay? So it says the slope of the line from 0 to b is flatter than the one to a. So a LP at B is less than the Yale P at a. So diminishing marginal product of labor means that a LP falls as more workers are added. So that means that each extra worker is able to produce less food. In this agricultural case. And obviously in advanced economies we'd be talking about other goods. But for right now we're thinking about, alright, so here's a practice problem. It's not a pole problem because we kind of have to do some graphing. So suppose there were no diminishing returns to labor. So that the marginal product of labor was constant as the number of workers increase. What would the graph look like if this were true? Alright, so let's see if I can do a straight edge. All right, so we have a graph. We have labor input here. And we have output here. What would that graph look like? Straight line, yes, Jonathan? Absolutely, right? It would be a straight line. Which means that the slope is constant as labor increases, which implies that the marginal product of labor is constant as labor increases. So then the second part of the question which RE already got is that a LP would also be constant. Okay? So that's really easy to see because remember the AFP is simply that line from the origin. And so it's obviously just the same line. Ok. Now we're assuming concavity because we're assuming diminishing returns. Alright? So Malthus said that if you get a surge in population growth, the result will be famine, war, and disease, which will then lower population again. Alright, so why did he believe this? Because he believed in the law of diminishing returns to labor. So, let's see. So he was thinking about production functions like this, alright, where you increase labour input, you get more output, but you get it at a diminishing rate. So that means and these diminishing returns also apply to agriculture. As you add more and more, we're brokers to a fixed amount of land. Each one can harvest less food. And this was an issue in agriculture economies, particularly back then. Where, you know, a family, if they started having lots of children and they got older than they got married, and then you had the same amount of land. And then they had to support a growing family. And so then there was just less and less food for each person. So as the population rises, average labor productivity false. So there's less food per person. That was the whole crux of his argument. And it was based on something that we routinely assume, which is the law of diminishing returns to labor. If you look at the history of world population, he didn't have estimates like these. These are pretty rough estimates because it goes from 1 million BC to 990s of what the estimated population, as. You can see that there was some growth the population, this is in millions. But you know, in the year one, there were a 170 million people in the entire world according to these estimates, okay, that had doubled by 1100. But then if you look at the growth rate, you had positive growth over these long periods, but it was pretty small. And then, whoops, sorry. In some cases, you just had no growth or even negative growth. So that negative growth there. So the 0 growth was when you had the Mongol invasions and all kinds of war on the Eurasian landmass. And then the Black Death in the 13 hundreds led to negative population growth. And then another year where you had 0 was the upheaval in China where you had, well, do you have the main collapse in China, the Thirty Years War in Europe. Alright? So you do see these patterns where you can see population growth and then you get all kinds of terrible things happening, war, famine and disease. So Malthus's predictions were well founded by previous history. So practice problem to, I, I don't think I turn this into a pool. The Black Death killed over 1 third of the population of Europe in the mid 13 hundreds. What do you think happened to standards of living as measured by food per person? Those who survived. Me, I'm gonna, I'll start graphing this. Why you think you could just call it out in the chat? Labor you put yes, they went up. And why do we think that? Well, we've got this concave function. We might've been say here before the Black Death. And then with the Black Death, we might have moved, say, yeah, I guess if we're a third of the people died, then this is after the Black Death. And so we moved to a lower amount of labor applied to the same land. And so the average labor product is higher, much higher marginal product of labor, and average labor product. Now, okay, now people who've looked at estimates of wages in Euro, real wages, the, found that real wages went up for farm workers. Alright? So think about it. You had, you know, the nobility because this was the feudal system. You'd have some, you'd have all this land and you'd be looking for workers to work that land. But a third of the people had been killed. And so these, the nobility were having to compete and raised the price of the amount that the worker got to Keith. And so their real wages actually went up. Alright, because the amount of land didn't change, but the amount of workers did. And so if they survived, shelf course, they probably lost family members, just felt awful. But they probably did have more food. Right. Now it's, it's ironic last year when we were talking about this material, we had no idea pandemic was going to hit, you know, there's a few little stories from China, but you just had no idea would become a worldwide thing. So it's kind of interesting that fortunately, we don't look like we're anywhere near a third of the population. Thank goodness for vaccinations, kind of thing. But you can imagine the difference them. Alright. So, but then surprise, starting in the 18 hundreds, the population increase significantly in the UK and the US. Yet there was a significant increase in the standard of living. Okay, why we're Malthus's predictions wrong this time? Alright, he had good historical support. Well, he did not anticipate himself. Because he did not anticipate the rising importance of other factors that could increase average labor productivity and marginal product of labor. In particular. These other factors shifted the whole curve up. They shifted the production function with output and labor on axes up. So what that meant is, even if your population was increasing. Labor input was increasing. You. The curve kept shifting up. So you are going from this point to this point. So you can have higher marginal product, you know, depending on how the curve was. But you got much more output per person. So that's what he didn't foresee, was the importance of these factors that we'll talk about shortly that could shift that whole curve up so that we weren't stuck moving along that curve. Okay, so we will now talk about the crucial role of adverse labor productivity growth and what factors influence average labor productivity. Alright, so the most important set of factors shift up the production function curve shown on the previous page. And they tend to raise both marginal product of labor and average labor product. Okay? So let's think algebraically about this relationship between average labor productivity and GDP per capita. Okay? So, all right, this is real GDP per capita, right? That's output divided by the total population. Okay? Now, notice that that's what's on the right hand side, k, because if you cancel those two ends, you just have y over palm. But I've split it into two terms by dividing one by n and multiplying the other by n, where n is the number of workers. So this is average labor productivity. Remind me to date. A LPS, average labor productivity. That's the total amount of output divided by the number of workers. This term is the share of the population that works. Professor? Yes. Is that the shadows to publishing look similar to box patient need? Not. It it it it will often be it'll sit typically be correlated with it. But it's not exactly the same. Because remember when we defined the participation rate, that was just divided by the population 16 and over ME though in this case, we're taking into account that people have to feed their children to read ESS next? Yes. So that's why we have this pop in there and that's a good point. I think I make that comment on it on another page. Now. This means k. So we have real GDP per capita is the product of the ALT key and the share of the population that works. So the growth rate of real GDP per capita. How can we write that given what we learned on Friday? That is equal to what? A LP. Now what comes next? Times? Time? Yes. You've got it on. It's plus because remember, they're the product than the growth rates, you take the sum. So that's going to be, and of course this is approximation. That's going to be plus the growth rate of share of population that works. Whoops, that works. And as Amit said, that's closely related to labor force participation rate and not exactly. Okay. So keep that in mind. If we want growth in real GDP per capita, we've gotta have growth and a LP, or growth in the share, the population that works or both. So let me show you what it looks like for the US. And this isn't this is up through about 2018 they think. Alright? So the top graph tells you, shows you real GDP per worker, right? This is average labor productivity us. Although the growth rate is sometimes faster and sometimes slower, a LP almost always rises. Okay, so it's definitely on a growth trend. Noticed that it was faster here. If you look at the slope, slower, had some fast. Now it's slower again. Now at the bottom graph shows you the share of the total population that is employed. K. Note that at rose from the early 19 sixties through 2 thousand. So from here to here. But then fell. Okay. Alright, it recovered some here. But then of course we went back down again somewhat with Cove it, this rice here was due to increase female labor force participation rate. Okay? So we'll, you know, women joining the labor force that lead to growth in the total population, implied in the fraction of the total population play. Alright. Also, an effect was the baby boom. Okay. Why is that? The baby boom happened right after World War two. Soldiers came back from war, started. Getting married and having families. And there are a huge number of babies born between 1946 and early 19 sixties. Alright? So while they're young, they're not in the labor force, right? But then they start joining the labor force once they get older, their late teens, early twenties. And so then they were also joining the labor force. And notice here's the share of total population employed. And this is where we get a difference with labor force participation rates because here we're looking at the total population. Okay? So we didn't have that increase. That happened from the early sixties to 2 thousand, but then it, it didn't continue increasing. Now, which of the two factors is the important one for long-run growth? Okay? Consider the US in the last 70 years, Real GDP per capita at why overpopulation, on average grew almost 2% overlap per year. That's the average annual one. Remember Barry's year-by-year, but we can take this averaged using the tools I gave one Friday. Average labor productivity grew 1.76%, whereas the employment shared, the population grew by only 0.2%. Alright? So average labor productivity is by far the most important for us grow. And that would be the case anywhere else for the long run. Because the share of your population that works can't go above a 100%, right? There's a ceiling to that. And we see, we sought peter out in the US after 2 thousand. Okay? And as I say, this is true in general. A LP can have sustained growth, whereas the share of the population employed cannot rise above a 100%. So if we want to figure out how we can have sustained growth in real GDP per capita, which we know is high at Lee horrible things and understand what leads to sustained growth averaged labor productivity. Okay, so here are six major contributors to average labor productivity, and we'll talk about each of them one-by-one. Alright? First one is human capital. All right? What do we mean by human capital? We'll call it h. It comprises the talents, the education, the training, and the skills of workers, right? And the idea is education training or education training workers could be formal educated education, but also on the job, training and just simply learning by doing, alright, so formal education is very important. But the amount that you'll learn once you graduate from whatever your last degree is and you go out and get a job, you'll be astounded by the amount that you learn while you're working. Okay. We can't teach you everything here. A worker with more education and training is more productive, meaning they have higher average labor productivity. Also, more human capital affects both new inventions and the diffusion of technology. Ok? So often not all the time, but often people have to have advanced degrees these days to come up with new inventions. Alright, so they need a lot of human capital. But it's not just the inventors who needed, it's also the people working at the factories and stuff. They need to be better educated so that they can adopt this new technology from the new inventions and, and, and implement it so that it's actually mounted to increase average labor productivity. This was a big thing in the US. There was something called the High School Movement. In the 19 twenties, the US was ahead of all the other countries and increasing the fraction of its population that went to high school. And one of the, there was a big push for this also by businesses because they wanted workers who could read blueprints. So they could implement all the great new inventions that were coming out in the early part of the 20th century. And they knew it was not just a question of some, you know, Einstein inventing something or Alexander Graham Bell. You needed people who could implement that invention in order for everybody to be able to benefit from it. Okay, so human capital is really, really important. One reason that China grew faster than India is that China raised the human capital of its population faster. So this shows literacy rates in China and India from 1951 to 2011. And the red lines are China and the blue lines are India. The red is the overall adult literacy rate. At, sorry, the solid line is the adult literacy rate and the dotted line is the female literacy rate. And one of the things that China did was they, they raise the overall adult literacy rate. And part of that was because they significantly raised the female literacy rate so that it wasn't too far behind the average. In contrast, in India, the female literacy rate lagged far behind the male literacy rate. And so you had fewer educated workers. So China was good at raising literacy rates. They, under Mao, they did some really bad things about higher education. And they could have done much better had they done that. But Dung Chow Ping turn that around. So that name that helped raise will talk about Deng Xiaoping later that helped raise China's quite a bit in this fader period. And not just measured by literacy, but all kinds of other human capital. Alright? So human capital is important. Alright? Second type of element that's important for average labor productivity is back, is physical capital by which we being factories, machines, equipment and roads. And on the next page, actually let me, so think agriculture tractors had a huge impact on labor productivity in agriculture. And that is why there are so few people in farming today and developed or developing countries. What ones that have moved away from subsistence agriculture. Alright? Because physical capital really increases productivity in agriculture. It also really increases productivity in manufacturing and many other sorts of things. And then roads, which we often call infrastructure. That is very important as well. Because being able to move goods from one place to the other, or move people from one place to the other is very important. Okay? So we'll assembly lines, computers. All of those are examples of physical capital, right? The capitals like labor, it also has diminishing marginal product. So for a given number of workers, adding capital generates more output. So in this case now we're doing the opposite before we're saying, okay, let's hold everything else constant and add more workers. That was that concave graph we had. And we saw diminishing marginal product of labor holding everything else constant. Now we're saying, let's hold workers constant. And let's think about increasing capital for a given number of workers. Adding capital generates more output, but it generates more output at a decreasing rate. So you can imagine when you have workers that suppose you have a team of ten workers, you, you give them their first computer, one computer. The marginal product of that one computer is really, really high. Suppose you add a second computer. Well, that's going to have positive Marshall product because now two people can be working on the computer at once. And then you continue it. You'll have positive marginal product but, but it will be much lower than those initial increases. So if you have, let me see, did I do this? We can draw a production function where we have something else on this axis here. This would be the amount of capital. Could think of it for simplicity, say the number of machines or the number. Yet lets just put machines since a computer's machine, what we're saying here is that has that same concave shape. Concave because of decreasing marginal product of capital. Alright? But if you add more capital, that raises marginal product of labor and the average product to labor. So I'm going to erase this graph because I don't want you to get confused. This is so just make a note to yourself, that's the one with capital. But I want to show you specifically when I'm talking about here. Okay? So this capital raises the average product to labor. So if we go back to our graph with labor on this axis, this is the graph that we had used when we were talking about Malthus. We have it looking like that. And an increase in capital shifts this up. So increase capital shifts graph up. By this. By the way, this is also true for human capital. And the other things we'll be talking about. Alright, so those are the things that shift the curve up. Parade. That's how it raises average product of labor is by shifting. That curve. Alright, land and natural resources, okay? Higher-quality land races the average labor productivity of farmers and agriculture. Natural resources can raise labor productivity. And the US, one of the reasons that the US did so well early on, people said it's because they had such abundant natural resources. But with world markets for natural resources, this is a little bit less of a factor in that. Even if you don't have oil in your country, you can buy it on world markets. So for example, Japan does not have oil, but they can import it. Same with India. Alright? But in general, you know, having oil, or at least in the past, having oil was useful. We'll see what happens going forward. Okay? So that's land and natural resources and certainly having good ports and access to ocean and shipping are all benefits for this technology. Alright? So this is knowledge and ideas. In the, I think here's we can produce either more or the same output with less labor. Alright, so that's one way. Or we can produce new products. So this is one way that it helps, and this is a second way that it helps. Both of those rays average labor productivity. Okay, just figuring out how to produce more with less labor or coming up with entirely new products that have value. I'm going to give you some examples on the next couple slides. Okay, so here's an example of producing more of a specific good with the same labor. Okay? This is over the last six centuries, how many books could be produced in one day? Alright. So back in, let's see, where does that I don't even remember. Okay. So this was back in the Dark Ages here. You could produce 0.007 books per day because scribes had to do it by hand. And then you had to, you used what was the sheep skins and things like that to create your paper. This was in Europe. You had papyrus and Egypt. And it took a long time. Alright? Then in 1440, you had the first printing press and it could actually produce 2.5 books per day. Alright, so dramatic, you can't tell from this graph here. But then they added power to it. You know, all that CO2 we have in the atmosphere was of course, initially created by all of this bringing power to these goods, which at that time nobody knew the, those negative consequences. But your steam power printing you could you 25 books per day. And then of course now we have the internet. Alright? So technology, the printing press and then bringing power to the printing press had a huge effect on just being able to produce more of the same good. Now books are special in that they're just not, they weren't just producing one book, say the Bible. They started producing manuals. They actually have business texts. They had scientific texts. So it just dramatically increase the diffusion of knowledge, alright, and the new invention. So, so this wasn't just producing more of the same book. It was producing all kinds of new books that was allowed because of the printing press. Alright, and that's what I just said, to cut decrease in the cost of books lead to faster diffusion of new ideas and technological progress. So let me give you an example the importance of new products, alright, and growth. So we'll talk about the history of information transmission across the US. These are just examples and travel across the US. Okay? So it's 2802 miles from coast to coast in the US. Okay. How did you get information across the US at different times? Well, in 1848, this is when you had the first can people, if I expand that, can you can you see that bigger when I do that or does it stay the same? Okay. So this was the first US mail traveled to California by steamship from the East Coast via the Isthmus of Panama in 1848. And that was before the Panama Canal. And they had to take it on, on boroughs across this really jangly place, sorry. The ocean routes via Panama remained a vital link in the nation's rail system until the completion of the transcontinental railroad in 1869. Alright. So took four to six months to get a letter from the east coast to the west coast. Now the west coast was a weird kind of out there place until of course, 1849 when they discover golden california. And that's why suddenly everybody wanted to correspond with the West Coast, but it would take four to six months. Now, 1860 to 1861, they came up with this idea of the Pony Express. Alright. We did not yet have the transcontinental railroad, but we had some railroad link which is in the East. And then the way they made it to the West Coast, Missouri to California was with these ponies that would yield right part of the way. And then another one would pick up the letter and then they go and they could actually get you ten days from Missouri to California. Alright, so dramatic change relative to what was going on with going over the Panama. But then the reason the Pony Express didn't last very long is because in 1861, the telegraph was invented a few years before this. And in 1861, they had succeeded laying all the cables across the country so that you could almost instantaneously, as fast as you could do the Morse code, transmit a message to the other side of the country. Now that had to be written down and then delivered. They had all these delivery boys. But it's just dramatic change in dramatic reduction of time it took to take a message from the east coast, the west coast, or the other way. And then you had your first coast-to-coast telephone telephone service in 1915. And then of course now we have cell phones that are portable. Alright. Now, which do you think was the most important innovation in terms of information transfer mission of these, once I have up here, telegraph, Absolutely. I mean, if you look at that reduction in time that just transformed and it also made it possible for the trains to go. Because if you couldn't wire ahead, this train is coming to the station, they could run into each other. Alright, so the telegraph, this oldest communication, not only hope for the communication itself, it helped all these other industries. And we can also look at travel across the US. You know what, let me let me just do what we want. We might go back to this later. Covered wagon, one in seven months across the US and you were lucky if you're arrived alive. Okay. And most of you are probably a lot of your California history and you know about the dinner party and all that kinda stuff. 1869, the transcontinental railroad. It took 84 hours to cross the US on an express train in 1876. And he just truly amazing web for seven months to 80 for hours. Automobiles. We got at the start of the 20th century, there were actually slower than trains, but they had all kinds of other advantages because they allowed point-to-point travel where you didn't have to get on a train, you could get in your own car. And then mid-twentieth century we got the jet. Airplanes, takes six hours to cross the country. It still takes six hours to cross the country on an airplane. Okay. So we haven't increased that speed. The Concord with its supersonic travel just wasn't economically feasible. And so we have not gone beyond six hours. These days. Of course, we zoom across the country virtually, but that might be the path to the future. Okay, so we will continue this on Wednesday and I will probably assign let me see how many. I may assign before Wednesday or before Friday. Eight minute fun video for you to watch, but up, but I will post that in the assignments. Ok. Alright, tighty later for me. So I went over, I was so excited about the railroads. I didn't pay attention to the clock. Okay. Let me yeah.