 Valerie A Ramey: Good morning. Valerie A Ramey: Haha, you're, you're gone. Looks like I feel Valerie A Ramey: I'm only hiding my tiredness behind my makeup. Valerie A Ramey: When I woke up this morning. I said, oh, if I didn't have that conference, I need to go to later in Catholic, I would have canceled today. Valerie A Ramey: You know, I'm going to think I'm, I'm going to see if I can miss a second conference so that after the second mid term, we don't have to Valerie A Ramey: It's so much more exhausting than an actual midterm, at least for us, is it for you guys. Vahagn Saakyan: Oh actually no Valerie A Ramey: No. Okay, so, so it might be just because what we were just fielding all these emails this issue and that. So, actually. Yeah, so it's probably it might have been less exhausting for you guys because Valerie A Ramey: You're in the quiet of your own place instead of a big room. So that's good. I guess so. There are some advantages, other than worrying about the technical stuff to being able to take exams online. That's interesting. Vahagn Saakyan: Yeah, yeah, I was debating whether to watch this lecture recording or not. Vahagn Saakyan: Just get up. Valerie A Ramey: For work. We're going to do some polls and stuff. But you know, that's the nice thing about the Valerie A Ramey: Video. I didn't feel like anybody felt like they were required to come, they hadn't gotten out of bed yet. Screen. Valerie A Ramey: So was this down to the number of different things that happened last night. So two students who were in a dorm on campus had to evacuate because of a fire alarm. Valerie A Ramey: Yesterday leading up to the exam, somebody in Northern California. Valerie A Ramey: The all the electricity was down. It was near UC Santa Cruz and Valerie A Ramey: Luckily it came back up in time, but Valerie A Ramey: It was great. Valerie A Ramey: And I Valerie A Ramey: Always thought of my initial plan was to be a lawyer make lots of money and then writing retire early and write novels, then I decided to go in economics. I liked it so much. I didn't retire early. But if I ever end up writing novels. I think I'll Valerie A Ramey: I'll situate one during an online exam because there's so much drama. Let me go in Yes. Valerie A Ramey: I can see everything. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so let's go ahead and get started and I hope that everybody I guess you guys survived the exam because you're here this morning, so Valerie A Ramey: We, we looked at some of the score. Obviously the essay questions have been answered, but the the Valerie A Ramey: Mean was not as high as usual we think it's just because of all the stuff going on so that it no promises, but that likely is likely to meet a Valerie A Ramey: Generous curb. So don't panic over the weekend. Don't worry. Everybody was in the same boat. Okay. Alright, so we are starting chapter 19 Valerie A Ramey: And one of the first things we're going to do is talk about compound growth because that's such an important part of thinking about how standards of living increase over time. Valerie A Ramey: It. There's some parts in here that also apply to chapter 18 and usually I teach, both in this part. Valerie A Ramey: For the first midterm, because it applies to chapter 18 and 19 but we didn't get to it. So that's why it wasn't on the midterm and I accidentally left some discussion questions. I think Valerie A Ramey: pertaining to this, but hopefully you figured out, you didn't need to know that for the midterm. Alright. Valerie A Ramey: So these are just some useful tools that will start with and then we'll start the formal chapter 19 right after this. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so most macro series grow at what we call compound rates. So we want to deal the compound growth. All right. So, examples of series exhibiting these are the GDP, the price level stock prices population. Valerie A Ramey: Now closely related concepts are what are called geometric growth an exponential growth. So most of what we say also applies to those. In fact, we're going to use some approximations from exponential growth to talk about compound growth. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so the first tool is how to calculate average annual company growth rates. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: And this is useful because often we want to summary statistic of one of the examples, we'll talk about is China, how much has been growing on average per year. Valerie A Ramey: Over a certain amount of time now actual growth will vary from year to year, but it's nice to have an average. And it turns out with compound growth. You can't just take a simple app has will show you. All right. Valerie A Ramey: So suppose that say GDP or whatever you want. Why to be is equal to 200 years zero. And so, yeah, we're going to make it be output real GDP. Okay, and we're told that output will grow 4% per year. Valerie A Ramey: Now growth is typically exponential. So the rate is compound, just like an interest rate. So I'm sure you've all seen compounding of the interest rates before. So we're going to be using those tools. Valerie A Ramey: So let's let little A underline this Valerie A Ramey: OK, this little A here in bold be the growth rate not in percent. So if the growth rate is 4% and you write it as a equals point 04 Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so in year one. If we start near zero with white. The 200 and we have 4% growth than by your one we're going to have 200 times one plus point 04 to get 208 Valerie A Ramey: Alright, so that's how much you grew Valerie A Ramey: How about your to, well, we can just take the value that we found from your one we compound that meaning we multiply it by 1.04 Valerie A Ramey: And that gives us Twitter and 16.32 alright so it's just you can see just doing it step by step by step, but we suppose that I gave you the 200 and year zero and said, Tell me what the value going to be for output in your in your two. So, two years from now. Valerie A Ramey: Well, you can see that the way we could do that is simply take that initial output, multiply it by one plus a phrase that growth rate squared. Valerie A Ramey: All right, because that's what we did. We multiply this out twice first here, then that why one already has that one plus A in it. And then we multiply it again. Valerie A Ramey: So in this case we would take 200 times 1.04 squared to get that same number right now that second way of doing it is useful because we don't have to go step by step through every year. In fact, Valerie A Ramey: We can say in general if we want to know what output is in your team. Valerie A Ramey: Then we can take your t minus one times one plus A, or we can go all the way back to whatever year we want to start this is year zero however many years distance Valerie A Ramey: And multiply that times one plus point oh four to the power team captain. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so it's a really useful formula for saying, Okay, if they have 4% growth and if they start out at this certain amount. How much output will they have 10 years from now. Okay, so then the cap t would be 10 and we would raise 1.04 to 10 Valerie A Ramey: Right, so Valerie A Ramey: Obviously, I'm always thinking about 10 what, here's an example. All right, so I'll put in your 10 is equal to 200 times 1.04 to the 10th and that's equal to 296.05 so if you have 10 years where growth is 4% per year. And if you start at 200 you'll end up at almost 310 years from now. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so we'll increased almost 50% Valerie A Ramey: Okay, now suppose I tell you, okay, I'm going to think about it, the reverse. Because a lot of times, this is really useful to be able to answer this question. Suppose I tell you that output why it, which is the same thing is real GDP started out in year zero at 1020 years later it was 3207 Valerie A Ramey: What if I asked you what average annual compound growth rate must if it had experienced, on average, each year to be able to go from 1000 to 3207 Valerie A Ramey: There shouldn't have been a question like this on the midterm. It was on Valerie A Ramey: The practice thing if you got that question. No, there's no way you had that on the midterm, we check that over and over again. It was on the review session. Valerie A Ramey: It was on a review discussion section or one of those questions and I forgotten to take it off of there. When I put that out for you. So Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so what was the average annual compound growth rate. Valerie A Ramey: I do that. All right. So what you want to do is use the formula. So in this case, you're starting with 1000 Valerie A Ramey: You know that there's some one plus this growth rate that we're trying to solve for to the 20 because 20 years has gone by. And that's going to be equal to 3207 Valerie A Ramey: So you need to solve for A. So how do you solve for a while. Let's take we're taking this formula. Let's do the next algebraic step, we're going to take one plus a Valerie A Ramey: To the Valerie A Ramey: Equals 3207 Valerie A Ramey: Over 1000. Okay. That's the first step. Valerie A Ramey: What's the next step. Valerie A Ramey: Yes, we have to take the one 20th power of both sides. So we have one plus A to the one 20th. And so, of course, you multiply the exponent. So that's just a one there equals 3207 Valerie A Ramey: Over 1000 Valerie A Ramey: To the one 20th. So that's the exponent there. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, and then whatever that number is subtract one, and that's the A that you'll get. And if you do that, you'll see you'll get an 8.06 Valerie A Ramey: Which means 6% average annual growth. Okay. And if you're using what you have programmable calculate, you know, so far, you've been able to use that. But, you know, on this one. Valerie A Ramey: If you use SEC, you have a y to the x. And if you use second before you use why the x, it means it's why to the one over x. So it's very easy to calculate on it on a simple scientific notation calculator. OK. Valerie A Ramey: OK. Now, the reason we have to do this with exponent is that you would get quite in most cases, a very wrong answer. If you did the following instead. Alright, so Valerie A Ramey: Suppose you calculate the total percent change and divide by the number of years. So we're looking at this problem here where we have 3207 verses 1000 so if you do the percent change. Valerie A Ramey: Minus one, you would get the answer of a 220.7% increase over 20 years so that's that's accurate. Valerie A Ramey: But if you were trying to calculate the average annual one by dividing by the number of years, it would imply 11% per year. Valerie A Ramey: Okay that is really different. Valerie A Ramey: Why not 6% remember we did 6% on the previous page. It's because this thing here doesn't take into account the compounding. Valerie A Ramey: If average annual growth were really 11% per year output would have been 8000 rather than 3207. So the moral of that story is don't Valerie A Ramey: Do it. Valerie A Ramey: This way. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Valerie A Ramey: That's the wrong way, wrong way to do it. Valerie A Ramey: You can imagine a math savvy politician, claiming that during their administration average annual growth was much higher than it would be when you if you calculated it the compound way. Valerie A Ramey: Alright, so don't do it this way. That's why we have to do these exponent things Alright. Valerie A Ramey: Second tool. Here's a really useful approximation. Suppose we have a bunch of variables with compound growth. These could be prices GDP or population or whatever. All right. Valerie A Ramey: And let's suppose that variable a is simply the product A, B, C and D. So it's a is equal to be time seat time Steve writes the product. Okay. It turns out that if we care about the growth rate of a Valerie A Ramey: It is approximately equal to the sum of the growth rates of all the things in the product. All right, so this is product. Valerie A Ramey: And if you look at growth rates than it's the sum and I'll show you that a little bit on an FYI mathematical thing, but it's really, really useful to have this because you can just calculate things in your head. Valerie A Ramey: Now, suppose instead a is equal to be divided by see so as the ratio of B to C. Valerie A Ramey: Will just as when things are multiplied the growth rates were the the some of the, the growth rates of each of them when things are divided the growth rate of A is approximately equal to the growth rate of B minus the growth rate of C. So ratios. Valerie A Ramey: Turn into differences. Valerie A Ramey: See why this whole Valerie A Ramey: Do the FYI, for the math types. This is not required but but a lot of plenty of people know about exponential growth. Valerie A Ramey: So the relationship that I said on the previous page was an approximation. It's actually exact for exponential growth. Valerie A Ramey: So to show you that suppose that a of tea. So, you know, once we start doing continuous time we write everything as a function of time. Valerie A Ramey: Supposed to a is equal to be time see times d. And at each series say is growing the time, although it could also be decreasing. Let me just say growing or decreasing Okay. Valerie A Ramey: And suppose, each one has some kind of geometric growth rate. So, this one has a geometric growth rate of G. Some be this growth rate is G subsea. This one's growth rate of chiefs of deep Valerie A Ramey: Well, if we then write a of t equals to all of these things, a product of all of these things. And if you remember your exponential things Valerie A Ramey: These growth rates, add in the exponent. All right. So, which therefore has a growth rate of the some of the growth rates. Valerie A Ramey: Of the individual series. So again, you do not need to know this, but I've just proved to you that it holds exactly for exponential for the other cases where we're not compounding continuously, but instead say every year. All right. It's an approximation. Valerie A Ramey: So let's do a practice problem and I have a poll Valerie A Ramey: Let's see. Yes. Okay. So if GDP grows by 6% per year and population grows by 2% per year. What is the growth rate of GDP per capita and remember that this means per person. Valerie A Ramey: All right. And let me launch that and wonder. Nobody was answering 4321 Valerie A Ramey: All right, we haven't neck and neck between 3% and 4% Valerie A Ramey: Does anybody want to tell me why they chose. Let's see 3% Valerie A Ramey: Or does anybody want to tell me why they chose 4% Atmik Das: I think it would be 4% because we know the GDP per capita is GDP divided by the population. So what we know about GDP divided our population is now. Suppose we were to calculate the growth rate of Atmik Das: GDP per capita, it would be the growth rate of GDP, minus the growth rate of the population. So that would be six minus two to be for Valerie A Ramey: exactly perfectly explained Valerie A Ramey: GDP per capita. Valerie A Ramey: Is GP divided by populations. He said, so that p p dot c means per capita. All right, because they are ratio we know the growth of GDP per capita is going to be approximately equal to the growth rate the numerator minus the growth rate, the denominator. So, that is why it's 4% Valerie A Ramey: Not 3% Valerie A Ramey: Okay cuz somebody other people were Valerie A Ramey: Doing the division. Okay, so I had my pull up who gave that really good answer was that week. Atmik Das: Oh, yeah, yeah. Valerie A Ramey: Good really good answer. All right, so Valerie A Ramey: So you can see, you know, now off the top of your head. Somebody says, oh, GDP was growing this much. Valerie A Ramey: population is growing that much. What was GDP per capita, you can do that in your head. You don't have to Valerie A Ramey: You know, sit down and work it out with paper and pen. Okay, second problem if real GDP grows 3% per year and the inflation rate and consider that to be using the deflator Valerie A Ramey: The GDP deflator remember Valerie A Ramey: Okay, it's 5% per year. What is the growth rate of nominal GDP and let me start that poll Valerie A Ramey: Is so weird how the pole will come up unless it's hiding somewhere. No. Valerie A Ramey: Great. Well, let me just bring it up again. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: There we go. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Alright 54321 Valerie A Ramey: All right. Valerie A Ramey: The majority got the right answer. Remember Valerie A Ramey: The formula nominal people's real Valerie A Ramey: Times the price level okay or Valerie A Ramey: Actually, you don't even need to rewrite it so Valerie A Ramey: That means that Valerie A Ramey: The growth rate. Valerie A Ramey: Of nominal GDP. Valerie A Ramey: Is approximately equal to growth rate. Valerie A Ramey: Of real Valerie A Ramey: Plus the growth rate. Valerie A Ramey: Up the price. Okay, and what do we call the growth rate of price level. Katie Yang: In relation. Exactly. Valerie A Ramey: So, that is why this is equal to 3% plus 5% Valerie A Ramey: Equals 8% Valerie A Ramey: So again, this gives you a tool to in your head. If somebody tells you, Oh, inflation is this nominal GDP was that what was the real loves the growth rate a real gap. You can do it in the opposite way or in the way we did it with this question. Valerie A Ramey: Couldn't you do. Yes. Five five equals x minus three. That's fine. Valerie A Ramey: Alright practice problem three here's, here's a two step or if the CPI is 1.5 and 2008 and 1.83 and Valerie A Ramey: What was the average annual inflation rate between 2008 and 2018. So in this case, you're going to need to take a to Valerie A Ramey: Use a calculator that has exponentially ation. Why am I not Valerie A Ramey: Somehow I don't have this is just, okay, I'm just going to do this for you because Valerie A Ramey: I see that I didn't do a poll for it. Alright, so we have 1.5 that we're starting with Valerie A Ramey: With the CPI and we're going to figure out, on average, what was the average annual inflation rate over those 10 years. That's why I have 10 it's from 2008 to 2018 and we know that Valerie A Ramey: That CPI is going to end up at 1.83 Valerie A Ramey: Will take one plus A to the 10 equals 1.83 divided by 1.5 and one plus A equals 1.83 over 1.5 to the one over 10 and solve Valerie A Ramey: For a which is going to be 0.02 which implies 2% Valerie A Ramey: Okay, average annual inflation. Valerie A Ramey: So there's a compounding problem. Valerie A Ramey: Because what we had done on fate, given what you knew on the mid term, we would say, what was the inflation rate over this five year period or something you would just calculate the percent change over the whole period. Valerie A Ramey: However, it's just much more useful to just put everything on an average annual basis because that way you can compare across countries, you can compare across episodes with different numbers of years in there. And so that's why we do this calculation of average annual kind of thing. Valerie A Ramey: All right. Okay. That was that question questions before I close this and start the Chapter 19 Valerie A Ramey: Alright, so Valerie A Ramey: What we're trying to understand in this chapter is through remarkable rice and living standards. Valerie A Ramey: And why it is that we've experienced this, and why it is that some countries have been left out. Valerie A Ramey: Why is it that some countries are growing so much faster than other countries or have higher standards of living. Okay, so here's a table that compares 1872 2010 Valerie A Ramey: And this is a 1990 international dollars and, you know, as usual, you don't have to remember that the actual numbers, but just think of this as almost like an index of their real output comparing it across countries and across time. Okay, so in 1870 Valerie A Ramey: In 1870 Valerie A Ramey: The UK was one of the wealthiest countries in the world in terms of the major countries. All right. Do us was second in terms of this chart and these countries here Japan was only only 737 per capita China 530 India 530 300 439 By Valerie A Ramey: The US had passed up the UK, so it so everybody's living standards for the most part, had increased but the US, particularly among this group 30,000 Valerie A Ramey: Per capita GDP and 19 $90 the UK was still doing quite well. But one of the really amazing things is Japan that started so far behind ended up with GDP per capita. That was just slightly behind the UK. Valerie A Ramey: China grew, but not as much as Japan, India group. Some but not as much as China and Ghana group, but not as much even as India. Right. And we want to understand why it is that different countries have different growth experiences. Valerie A Ramey: Now these are number in our right numbers, real GDP. What does that mean, okay, it means Valerie A Ramey: We know that real GDP doesn't perfectly capture standards of living, but we know that there's a lot of correlation between real GDP per capita. Valerie A Ramey: And your standard of living. That's more comprehensive including life expectancy and things like that. All right. So in many ways a low income person in the US today. Valerie A Ramey: Is better off than, say, Queen Victoria in 1800s. So, for example, her husband Prince Albert died of typhoid right when he was relatively young and she wore Valerie A Ramey: Black. Black morning for something like 60 years because she lived forever, you know, Valerie A Ramey: And today it would be so easy to cure that even if you were relatively poor right society would would have the medicine to help cure you. All right. Valerie A Ramey: So it's a tremendous increase in living standards, you know, a poor person today in the US wouldn't be living in Buckingham Palace, but they would have Valerie A Ramey: Access to so much else that people couldn't even dream of in the 1800s or they might have dreamed of it, but knew that they didn't have it. Valerie A Ramey: Now growth wasn't always so staying so sustain and you should never take growth for granted. Okay, we're going to give some examples later in this chapter. Valerie A Ramey: Here's GDP per capita in some selected European economies from 1300 to 1800 is a three year average. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: So for a lot of countries, and this is the 1300 to 1800. Alright. So you see, for example, Italy. Valerie A Ramey: Italy had the Renaissance. All right. And there was, you know, there was of course the amazing flourishing of art and and those sorts of things that we still have with us and they're estimated GDP per capita didn't go up some Valerie A Ramey: But notice it fell back down here and just kind of good. You know, so, so you would have these rises, but then kind of go down and then you know another this is a little uptick with Portugal because of what was going on in the new world, but then that started going down. Valerie A Ramey: And there wasn't much happening now Holland did manage to go up and kind of stayed on an upward trend which was unusual and then England was the other one. Valerie A Ramey: Did Sweden Rose somewhat went back down there wasn't that much. Alright, so Valerie A Ramey: There were long, long periods of stagnation and by some measures. Valerie A Ramey: The citizens of the Roman Empire, you know, 2000 years ago were better off than the Europeans in the dark ages, which came, you know, later right so growth wasn't always system so sustained, even if you had higher higher living standards at one point in time, your society might go backwards. Valerie A Ramey: So why apparently small differences in growth matter. We call it growth is compound I geometric growth or exponential growth. This means that small differences in average annual growth rates lead to large differences in GDP per capita over time. Valerie A Ramey: Suppose we have two countries country, a country be and they start with the same per capita GDP say $1,000 Valerie A Ramey: Suppose it over the next 100 years on average country has 2% growth and country be has 4% growth. Okay, let's calculate where each of those countries will end up at the end of 100 years. Remember they're starting off at the same GDP per capita so country has 1000 Valerie A Ramey: And that's going to compound on average 2% per year. So we're going to take 1.02 to the 100 Valerie A Ramey: And that means 100 years hence it will end up with GDP per capita of a little bit over 7000 Valerie A Ramey: Country be will take that same 1000 but it's going to have average annual growth of 4% Valerie A Ramey: How will it do it's going to end up with GDP per capita of 50,000 more than seven times the other country because on average, its growth was higher. You know, there might have been fluctuation. So we're calculating average annual growth here. Valerie A Ramey: But what looked like oh one had 2% growth one had 4% growth. How could that possibly be so much different after 100 years in terms of the level. It's the power of compounding. Valerie A Ramey: This is why countries really sweat 3% like for the US 3% growth versus 2% growth. Doesn't matter if it's only for a few years. But if it keeps going on and on that lower average annual growth will affect your standard of living in significant ways going forward. Valerie A Ramey: So here's a practice problem and I have a couple for that. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so I'm in the poll you only have to answer for China. Just because I'm not sure how to do a poll. But to answer. Well, it was too complicated do two answers. All right, so this is GDP per capita. This is in purchasing power parity 19 $90 Valerie A Ramey: China in 1980 versus 2010 in India in 1980 versus 2010 so go ahead and see if you can figure out what the average annual growth rate of China actually was between 1980 and 2010 Okay. 54321 Valerie A Ramey: Okay, this is good because this is you have to do that exponential nation. Um, but 70% of the people got the right answer, because what they did was for China. They took 8032 divided by 1039 Valerie A Ramey: We're talking about 30 years here. Right. Yes. Valerie A Ramey: And then you take it to the one 30th. I'm skipping those steps of algebra, and then you subtract one, and you get Valerie A Ramey: A point oh seven, one, which implies approximately 7.1% for China. So that was 7.1% if you do the same thing for India, you can calculate this on your own to check the answer if you do the same thing for India, you get a 4.4% Valerie A Ramey: So China was growing at amazing 7.1%, on average, each year. Valerie A Ramey: And that's how they increase their GDP per capita by eight times over this 30 year period India increases GDP per capita, but not as rapidly. It was growing 4.4% per year. But you can see the big difference at the end of those 30 years Valerie A Ramey: All right, another really useful approximation. This is just one straight out of the textbook as well. Valerie A Ramey: The other ones weren't but this one is okay. The rule of 72 and sometimes you'll see it as the rule of 70. It's just a slightly different approximation. So don't get will use rule of 72 for this class. Valerie A Ramey: The number of year. This is the number of years it takes for the level of a geometrically growing variable to double. And that's approximately 72 divided by the annual percentage growth of the variable stated in percent terms. Alright, so Valerie A Ramey: Suppose the GDP per capita of a country grows at 3% per year on average than GDP per capita will double in. Okay. According to this rule we take 72 that's always in the numerator and we divide by three because we want it in the percent terms and that is equal to 24 years Valerie A Ramey: So that means it takes Valerie A Ramey: 24 years Valerie A Ramey: To double Valerie A Ramey: And it's approximate Valerie A Ramey: So this is another really useful approximation so that you can just do things in your head without having to do a bunch of exponential creation. Atmik Das: Professor Atmik Das: Yes. Why does this work. Valerie A Ramey: Why does this work, you know, there's a reason but i i don't recall offhand. You know, I'm sure that's a great question. But, but that's one that you could probably Google and find the answer to, because that Valerie A Ramey: Yeah, that's a really I should know that. Again, I think I looked it up. Valerie A Ramey: A while back, but now I can't remember off hand. Um, why it works. It's magic. No, it's not magic, it's math. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so here's a practice problem. I think I have a pool for this. Valerie A Ramey: Yes. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Between 1980 and 2010 remember the average annual growth rate. Valerie A Ramey: Of GDP per capita in China was 7.1% we figured that out a couple slides ago. How many years did it take for China's real GDP per capita to double. So let me launch the polling. Valerie A Ramey: Yes. Everybody's getting it right so far. Yes. Valerie A Ramey: Well. Okay, a few people. Can do their dividing The day after the midterm, we're all tired. Okay. 54321 Valerie A Ramey: All right, good job. The answer yes is 10 years Valerie A Ramey: Since that's approximately 72 over 7.1 Valerie A Ramey: Right. Think about what those what that number means Valerie A Ramey: And you imagine. And I know you're at least a third of the students in this classroom in China right now, so they they Valerie A Ramey: Know about this. And, you know, even in their lifetime. But what particularly what happened. Their parents lifetime. Can you imagine living in a society where, on average, your household income. Valerie A Ramey: doubles every 10 years in real terms. Okay, so this is real GDP per capita. Right. That's an astounding increase in the standard of living. I mean, it's Valerie A Ramey: So rapid and it happened on average to so many people. Alright, so, China has, you know, over a billion people 1.4 now. Valerie A Ramey: As Larry Summers who was the Treasury Secretary when he gave me, he said, when they write the history of the 20th century, sure. We'll think about the world wars and all of that. But one of the biggest stories about the 20th century has got to be the rise in China. Valerie A Ramey: Never before in the history of man, man, and womankind have so many people been lifted out of poverty into a middle class or even, you know, wealthy existence. Never before has anything like that ever happened. Valerie A Ramey: And we're going to talk about some of the details of that little bit later in this chapter with some of the stuff that I'm going to supplement Valerie A Ramey: Now, oh, actually, here's some current events. So this is, this is from last January, it was very current when I Valerie A Ramey: Put this in the notes last January, and it was before covered was really having an effect even in China. I mean, there was. Whoo. Han was an issue, but the rest of the country was Valerie A Ramey: Get all hadn't been affected so much by then, or at least didn't know they had so China's slowing growth underlying stress facing its economy and 2020 Valerie A Ramey: On Friday, Chinese officials said the country emerged from with an official economic growth rate of 6.1% Valerie A Ramey: Well, within the government's target range of 6% to 6.5% but the lowest level nearly three decades. Valerie A Ramey: Last year's growth rate, however, was well below China's 9.5% average Valerie A Ramey: Annual expansion between 1978 and 2017 notice that's it. So it was even large over that whole period, according to the state regime was news agency. Valerie A Ramey: Major government policy for this year includes finalizing a decade long push to double income levels and they mean GDP per capita and the size of the economy. Valerie A Ramey: From where they stood. Oh, actually, that might not be per capita. Valerie A Ramey: Now, I think it is, yeah, from where they stood in 2010 including the now chief threshold of $10,000 per capita annual income. Valerie A Ramey: While lifting living standards for remaining 5 million people still considered severely impoverished. Valerie A Ramey: So the Chinese government really cares about numbers like how they double income levels, how long it takes. And that's why that rule of 72 is such a useful thing because Valerie A Ramey: In many governments, you know, a lot of people, a lot of the politicians probably can't do a lot of exponential nation. So if everybody understands the rule of 72 then that makes it easier to talk about this. Valerie A Ramey: All right, so why do nations become rich Valerie A Ramey: So a couple hundred years ago, it was not so obvious that countries could increase their living standards much I showed you that graph before that showed you know Italy had its little blip in the Renaissance, but then kind of went back down. Valerie A Ramey: Right. So what I'm going to talk about here is not in the textbook. But I think it's really important for Valerie A Ramey: For giving you perspective so that you don't take growth for granted. Right. So there was a very famous English economist, known as Thomas Malthus and in a book he wrote in 1798 He argued that population growth would lead simply to more misery. All right. Valerie A Ramey: Why did he make that prediction. Okay, so first we're going to fill in a few necessary tools including some material you studied in Chapter 13 of Econ one, so it'll get those cobwebs out from there. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, so we're going to talk about the marginal product of labor and the average labor productivity. Okay, that's something that the book focuses a lot on. So this part is also in the book. All right. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, first, let's do a quick review of those econ one concepts. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: A workers marginal product is the extra output produced by adding the worker to your company say, or to the field. If you're on a farm. Valerie A Ramey: Remember what marginal is relative to average. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: Now you've heard about the law of diminishing returns right he called one you know about diminishing returns because of the law of diminishing returns the marginal product of labor. So this stands for marginal Valerie A Ramey: Product. Valerie A Ramey: Of labor. Valerie A Ramey: Declines in the short run as the quantity of labor workers or hours or whatever employed rises. Valerie A Ramey: All right, so if you when you add suppose you're at the ice cream shop. Valerie A Ramey: And you add one worker. Okay, you get the marginal product of that workers pretty high, because without them. You couldn't serve anybody the ice cream shop. So you've added that worker. Valerie A Ramey: But suppose that there are quite a few lines that if people see lines. They don't come to the ice cream shop and so therefore you can't make a sale if you add a second worker. Valerie A Ramey: They will increase your sales, but they will increase them as much extra as that first worker did so it's that same kind of marginal product. Valerie A Ramey: That you've taught that you saw an Econ one, all right. I'm now going to show how marginal product labor relates to the average labor productivity which that's what the book costs of the ALP I would call it. Valerie A Ramey: What do I call it a PL book called the ALP so I will call it that. Valerie A Ramey: Right recall from Chapter 16 that average labor product ALP is equal to total output divided by the number of workers or if you want to count up hours per worker, it could be total output divided by the number of hours worked. You can define productivity, either way. Valerie A Ramey: So let's think about the relationship between output and Labor, Employment. Okay. Valerie A Ramey: As labor input rises meaning as you add more workers or as you add more hours of work output also rises. That means you have a positive marginal product of labor, right, adding more workers, we assume increases output. Valerie A Ramey: But the rise and output becomes less and less. That's that diminishing marginal product labor. Okay, it's positive, but at each level it's going up less Valerie A Ramey: We can represent that with this graph. Valerie A Ramey: This graph on the horizontal axis has labor input, for example, that could be the number of workers or it could be the number of hours. Valerie A Ramey: And this is the amount that he produce the output. Valerie A Ramey: Okay, this is a graph. This is called a production function, right, which tells you how much output you get first certain level of inputs here the input, we're focusing on is labor and if they're using any other inputs like capital, we're holding those constant as we go along this craft. Valerie A Ramey: Now the marginal product of labor is greater at point A than it is at point B. Okay. How do we know that, let's look at the slope. Valerie A Ramey: There at point A, that tells us if we add this much labor. How much output. Valerie A Ramey: Do we get remember rise over run. If you guys still do that school, same here at be but notice Valerie A Ramey: You get less of an increase in output for a given increase in labor. Valerie A Ramey: That's exactly what we mean by diminishing marginal product. Valerie A Ramey: Okay. So notice that this. So the slope. Valerie A Ramey: gets flatter. Valerie A Ramey: As labor. Valerie A Ramey: Increases meaning as we move that way. Okay. This is a con cave Valerie A Ramey: Graph. Valerie A Ramey: And we're concave versus convex concave looks like a cave. Okay, so that's how you can remember that it's concave Valerie A Ramey: All right. Valerie A Ramey: You guys did great. We're going to on Monday we'll review this graph again, probably. I mean, depends on how far we get an 11 and then we'll move on to the other part. Valerie A Ramey: All right. So, have a good weekend. Hopefully, you get a little bit of rest. But chances are you have midterms next week. But good luck with that. Not, not in this class. Valerie A Ramey: I know that sometimes the transcription of the thing doesn't transcribed correctly so I can imagine in number. Students saying what, there's a midterm next week. No, there's no midterm next week in this class. Valerie A Ramey: All right. Bye bye. Thank you.