 Okay. Just speak up. You yourself. Things writing, professor. I had a quick question about the homework. So I started doing it. Before. You said you had made those changes and the instructions and I like reloaded it just to like so I could see the changes but they didn't show. Okay. So that somebody else said this to you. So I can see it's already by tooth were what I would say just to be safe. Round everything to 0.01. that's probably even safer than you need to be because I always give a rage. And I just want to make sure that your, yours lands in the range. So if you, if your extra precise, you don't lose anything. But it just makes it so annoying the way I can't update a question even for students who haven't submitted. I guess as soon as you open it, it gets locked in stone. So I am hoping that we don't have to read literary. Thank you so much. Yes, I, it's good to hear it from the second-person cuz I was wondering if it was just one person and bread. It seemed like everybody. Professor. Yes. Yeah, I had a question about the syllabus for them. They don't tomorrow. Yeah. All what goals would you like us to read for them? It don't worry that the sign we haven't done in close that and then you'd be in the news articles? Yes. Yes. So that's what we're gonna do today. The only one that we had done so far was the unemployment report and I are close to that. But then you will see, did I not post turtle icon? I had posed to peace, but I think I forgot to post news. Let me quickly. I think you have yes. I get posted. Yes. And we will talk about them today. I can tell you that there are too many things to think about. Our reach. Let me do some sharing to groups will work. Okay? Alright. So the TA's and I had a crazy, crazy lasts five days because it became clear to us that we couldn't use the relaxed, laid-back California factoring system for the mid-term. So we were trying to make it low stress, but then that would have just led to all kinds of academic integrity violations. So that's why we spent the whole weekend making good old Jake, making video after video. Well said that he should become a video star, does such a good job with the videos. And we're trying to be as clear as we can. But you know, we're all learning this. I sometimes feel like we're all in this boat that's falling apart but we're bailing and we're fixing it and we're hoping to get to the other side of the lake when there will be no more coconuts and be there intact. So I feel your pain. I hope you feel like we're just doing the best that we can. Okay. So today I'm going to start with a few announcements. Were going to finish the chapter 18 notes. We're going to go back to the chapter 17 notes to do some of the current events there. Then we're gonna do the current events that I just posted in the PT in the lecture notes section. And then if time permits were actually going to do some of that chapter 19 supplementary material which will not be on the midterm. But, you know, we're a little bit behind on the lecture. We'll see how it goes. And I'll, I'll be clear that when I get to that part so far, everything here is on the midterm. So midterm number one begins at 08:00 PM. Tomorrow evening, Thursday, January 21st. You're going to have one hour to complete it. Remember midterm one is only 20 minutes, alright? So midterm two, you will have longer, you'll have more questions and longer to complete it. Now, you will have very little time to look at your notes, right? Students who study harder, pretending like it's like a closed book exam, will do better because there'll be able to complete questions. Do not panic if you cannot complete all the questions are though, alright, I've made it so that it will be hard to complete them, but everything is going to be curved. Alright? This is the way to, to really benefit students who did the studying ahead of time rather than having to look up all their answers, alright? See them. Yes. Can we open up our textbook during the exam on the desktop lake? Not physically. Guess. Yes. You're allowed to open up anything on Canvas from the class and then the whatever it is that link that you have to the textbook. Okay? Yes, you're allowed to have it. So it is open notes, open book. But you're not supposed to go to any other websites. Okay. And and it's fine to ask these questions because you can not yes. You could look at the slides. Yes. You could look at your homeworks. Anything on campus. Alright. I'm sorry. So it's no. So should I print out my notes if I have them on my computer? You could use your own computer. I just don't want you going to other websites. I don't want you googling answers. I don't want you going to chat rooms. So if your notes or on your computer, that's those are your notes. Originally, iPad is o and I understand that because I'm I'm using iPad right now to project this. It's just too risky to let people have a second screen open under desks. So what I do on my iPad, I actually use Dropbox. I had the business version that I had to pay for. The free Dropbox is really nice because you can, you know, you can access it both on your iPad and on your computer. And that way you can just have those notes on the computer without having to have your iPad open, okay. And, you know, it would be wonderful if we could just ocher, use the iPad. But we talked about that. This is what we've been to play for the, what is this? K. Oh, we'd like to let the students do this, but it's there at this issue. And we feel like we're playing one of these strategic games where you're trying to figure out how the dishonest students will respond, okay? But, you know, feel free to ask questions during exam beforehand. And, you know, we've had a flurry of questions to the email cat. We're trying to get them answered, but sometimes we have to all discuss them beforehand. Okay? No. So you could see all the questions. All the questions will be presented to you on the midterm. And, you know, once a little hard, hey, go to another one. So use your time wisely. Ok. As was announced, there will be two types of discussion sections today. I would suggest going to both. One will be a review of the material from this last week, the inflation and all that. The other one will be answering questions before the exam. So you're allowed to go to as many discussion sections as you want. Homework number one c, that was that little essay one with the practice on great scope. It won't be graded before the mid-term. So I wanted to give you feedback on essay questions. I went with the craters through, you know, the for, through some of them where we figured out how many points to guess. How many points does that. I have? Put the Additionally answer examples, what are good answers and what are bad, not good answers. And next to that homework and the homework module, so that you can get feedback on what's a good answer to an essay question, what isn't? And because there'll be at least one, probably two essay questions on the midterm. So I wanted you to be able to have that feedback. The discussion section today. I don't know, sir. Whereas I think that the typically what they do from the from the regular Material Review Discussion sections. This is a question from Sean. Is they figure out which of their cuz it's the same TA during all of those, they figure out which was their best one and then they'll post that with the homework once. I'm not sure how that's going to work, just the homework questions. So, so I hope to see you do not have to handwrite exam, everything that's going to be uploaded to Canvas. After the exam it's using, then you have to upload your, your video recording separately. But all the other answers you're going to type essay questions on this one, we decided cloud, we decided not to also do grade scope on this with all of the other things that you're having to absorb. Okay? So alright. And then we will have lecture this Friday. A lot of times people say, oh, can't you cancel that lecture? Well, I will make up for the two out a class mid-terms, but it will be by canceling two lectures later in a coordinates because I need to attend conferences. In this case, the zoomed usually had to fly to attend them in previous quarters. But one of those canceled lectures will be Friday, February 26th. The other one will be sometime in those last weeks the class, believe me, it's a pain to go to lecture this Friday or to watch the video. But you will so appreciate having two lectures and all that material cancelled later on in the quarter when you're sure to be farther behind. Okay. Alright. Any questions on that? Yeah. First I had a question about the discussion section questions. Will you be releasing the solutions to that? Usually I do not because they're there for people who go to discussion section. I have to say I have to check a whole, but one of the TAs and I wrote a bunch of questions on an exam today. That's my highest priority. Yay, I get time. I will try to post those. Some answers to the problem I'm having is so because I'm 11 hours ahead, I'm unable to attend the discussion section. But also yeah, that's good. Yeah. So one thing they didn't they didn't even manage to get through all the questions.gov. So we go here, it's Tyler here. Tyler, are you here? Tyler much it's like Lee, how are you here? This is not going well. I don't want to let, let me, let me write it myself. Give discussion section, answers. Ok. You guys have enough other stuff to deal with. You guys get a benefit or discussion section begets. Good. Alright, and one other loci, clarification, that joke. It's like I saw I got a lot of these questions in office hours, so I just thought it was useful to you for you to have written in tight better than my scroll handwriting on inventory investment, alright? We call the inventory investment is related to stock of inventory is as follows. It's, So the way the book says it is inventory investment equal stock of inventory said NDA period, lightest docket inventories at the beginning, a period that's equivalent to how I et cetera in class, which is doctorate inventories at the end of the period minus docket inventories at the end of last period because, you know, at that 1 second to midnight. So now I just want you guys to be clear that that is the same thing. Now, inventory investment is also related to production and sales as follows. Inventory investment equals production minus sales. And between those two relationships, if you wanted to figure out what the stock of inventories is you've accumulated at blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Just use whichever one is convenient for you. These relationship when you're, when you're given a particular problem. And I have this posted in the lecture section, an ad call announcements January 20th, and this is the second page and that okay. All right. I'm going to pop out at Air and pump into the chapter, eat nuts. Are rate movies. This is where we are and the PowerPoint y tends to o, that's bringing change. Okay, so let me go there. Let me start from current slide here, okay? And I need to rearrange the screening current because I went through this a little bit quickly and I skipped one thing. So remember that we're talking about inflation and interest rates. And we talked about how somebody was paying you a nominal interest rate of 5%. But if inflation turned out to be 10%, that band, that groups, that meant that the dollars that you receive. So in this example, you invested a $100 at the end of 2020 and then you get a $105 at the end of 2021. But if inflation has gone up 10% in that time. Does a 100 and fiv dollars, which are by percent more than what you started with, but are actually worth less than what you started with. Because inflation has eroded the purchasing power. And so inflation, affection or real returns. The real interest rate is the annual percentage increase and a real purchasing power of financial asset. It's known as the real return. And remember we had a relationship that said that to repent. Remember that the real interest rate was equal to the nominal interest rate minus inflation. And we had some examples there. John, OK, I asked how many questions will be on the mid-term. I I haven't had a chance to go over it, so I don't know how many, you know the number. It'll be different points. For some question. Which slide is this? Is this not 32 on yours? That 33. That that's why so I haven't changed any. That's really weird. I don't know why it won't update. I'll just sign. Okay. Hopefully an FYI for mathematical types. Exact KVL, actual murray. Ok. The, these slides should be the one that you have. It could be that my alright, people are getting confused. Let me close these and open up delta, cuz it was doing this to me yesterday on Friday as well for some reason. I had to put it in the root directory. Okay. Let me try this. Family became so is that correct? 33 and say when you have yes. Okay, good. So from current corresponds again, I have to change this window. Okay? So we said inflation affects your real returns. Which is did that, alright? An FYI for mathematical types about exact relationships versus approximations. So you don't need to know the exact relationship is that one plus the real interest rate, where the real interest rate is 0.04, something equal to one plus the nominal interest rate over one plus the inflation rate. Now note when you add those rates to one, always express the rates and the foreign 0.05, not 5%. That's what we had talked about before. To see where the approximation comes in. Re-write that equation where I've just multiplied both sides by one plus pi. And remember that peice inflation. When you do that and just multiply it out, you're gonna get this little term here, which is R times pi. We can rewrite it again. There's that term there. Now why can I say that? Real interest rate equals I minus. Pi minus that is approximately equal to this. How can I say that, that approximately equal to 0? Well, suppose the nominal interest rate is 5%, say 0.05, exactly, because r times Pi is very small and the inflation rate is 0.03. The exact value of the real interest rate in this particular examples, 1.9 for the approximate value using the relationship we had on the previous page is 2%. And the reason is that r times Pi is very small, is 0.0006. Alright? Now, I always try to make the ranges of rounding in any questions so that both people who use the approximation i taught and people who use the exact relationship, we'll get the right answer. And if you use one and are marked incorrectly, always let us know. And the only thing that you need to know from this page, if you want to just completely ignore it, is just that reminder which I've already told you before. Whenever you add a rate to 1.04, not 4%. So the rest you can completely ignore. Compute. Not interesting. I always get questions about the approximations. That's my purpose here. Alright? You do not need to know the exact relationship. Alright, so we had looked at examples where currently the interest rate, nominal interest rates are very low and it used to be very high. And our point was misled us to the Fischer effect, which is that nominal interest rates tend to be higher when inflation is higher. And that is because the people care about real returns. And therefore when therefore when real returns. Sorry, I just saw Tyler. Oh, good. Okay, great. Tyler's so Tyler's here. He's won the Jade. I was going to ask him to email me to remind me to let the students have the discussion section answers. Okay, good. But I also wrote it on my little whiteboard session. I should be okay. Alright, let's do a practice problem here too. I think I have a poll for this to be chunky. So this would be let's hear dope. I don't think I have it here. Let's suppose that the CPI is 100 this year. It's expected to be a 110 next year. I'm making a loan to you and I want to earn 6% annual real rate of return. What nominal interest rates should I charge? All right, now this is a more advanced question because it's a two-step question. All right? You need to be able to do two things. So what would you think the first step is? Yes, you need to figure out the rate of inflation Exactly. So what would you do here? You would say a 110 divided by 100, which is 1.1. Which implies 10% conflation, which we call pi. Remember, we know that because what we get here is subtract one multiplied by a 100 to get percent. That's how we got that from that CPI. We're just looking at the percent change in the CPI. Alright? So the 10% inflation we want, we want a real interest rate of 6%. So what annual nominal interest rates by charging SDK 16%? Absolutely. Okay. So you now know how to take a CPI finding inflation rate and say, okay, I'm going to charge you this much nominal interest rate. I'm looking for this kind of real rate of return. And that's something useful if you're ever making loans to people who which you're less likely to do unless you work for a bank, but you can at least be reason on some people might be, and high inflation environments where it makes a difference. All right, we finished Chapter 18. What we will now do is circle back to chapter 17 and do the we will do some of those current events that were embedded in that reach behind wherein current events where I think it was into the GDP current. Hmm has a launching, prevents applications credit current. Alright? And again, I need to move this. Alright? So these were prevents applications about GDP was in chapter 17. Alright? So the first one is the Kobe recession. Alright? So this was from Fortune magazine for last July. And that was when they were first reporting how much GDP and fallen after the locks down started. So it said US GDP falls by a historic 32.9% as the pandemic ravaged his businesses, enforces millions out of work. Alright, so this was what was happening in the second quarter of last year. The corona virus outbreak has hit the US economy harder and faster than any event in the history of modern economic records. That grim point was made. That grim point was made official on Thursday when the US Bureau of Economic Analysis announce that the second quarter real GDP from April to June declined by 32.9% from the preceding period. It's the largest single quarterly decline on record. Data going back to 1947 and represents more than $1 trillion in economic output wiped out by the corona virus. Pandemic figure comes in it three times worse than the previous record in 1958 when the economy saw 10% quarterly drop, okay? Now, there is an issue with this, okay? Typically, when the Bureau of Economic Analysis publishers the how much GDP increased or decreased, they publish it, not the actual percent change in GDP from one chord to the next. But what the annualized rate is, okay? Because the idea, because usually a GDP starts going down, it's going to stay going down for awhile. Alright? So the true amount that GDP fell was something like, I actually have this written elsewhere, was something like 8%. Alright? Usually this is not a problem, but the decline was so dramatic and happen all at once and didn't continue. There's a little bit that's misleading here. Okay. So there's a, there's another part well, where I'll show you in particular what the number is. But it was, it was definitely a, an abrupt, dramatic recession that we went into. Here's a second one, recent India GDP growth. This is from an article in December. India at overtaken the UK in 2 thousand my team to become the fifth largest economy in the world, but has been relegated to the sixth spot in 2020. And he has been knocked off course somewhat through the impact of the pandemic as a result, after overtaking the UK in 2019, we UK overtakes India again in this year's forecast, estates ahead. So 20-24 before India takes over again, the UK based thing take Center for Economic and Business Research said in an annual report published on Saturday. Ok. So things that are going on with the pandemic get our leading to changes in sorted the rankings of various economies according to how hard they'd been hit by the pandemic. And then this one, this is actually from 2013, but it just lines up really well still with the whole GDP part. Because remember, we talked about things not included in GDP. So this was an article from Slate. Drugs and prostitutes are surprisingly large chunk of Italy's economy. Since that last year, which would have been in 2014, the European Union gave new meaning to the phrase stimulus spending when it began requiring its member states to start incorporating illicit activities, including drug trafficking, prostitution, illegal alcohol, and cigarette sales when calculating the sizes of their economies. Alright? So the European Union is asking them to include them and GDP, which is not the usual way they do that. The goal was to make it easier to compare stats like gross domestic product across borders. The Netherlands, for instance, already counted the cash generated by legal marijuana sales in its national accounts. Germany, where prostitution is legal, tallied up the money from sex work. European official decided other countries could claim credit for those sorts of activities, even if technically they weren't about to board. So which country's GDP got the biggest joke versus making a snipe at their former Prime Minister. But it was Italy, okay, and Spain was a close second. So here's a graph that shows how, how much was added to GDP in terms of percent once you start counting illicit activities by countries. So for the entire OECD, which is the group of developed economies, it add a 0.2%. But Italy, it added 1% GDP. So there, so if you include and illicit activities, the estimate of GDP increases by 1%. Nsa said Spain also increased some of the others. You just didn't see that much of an increase, but you still have some 0.4 and once like that. Alright, so there's an example where they could say, We're going to come up with an alternative estimate of GDP that count, some of these things that are standard not to count. Okay. All right. So those were the ones from Chapter seven to and what we'll do now is go to news. Huh? News. Okay, I have three type. So let's do China recovery as downloading from Dropbox from current. Okay, so here we have China, which I can't see this once again, every time I open one of these snake is to move it. All right? This is from just a few days ago. China's economy powers ahead, while the rest of the world reels. China's the only major economy expected to report growth for 2020, helping it close the gap with us lifted by its quick recovery from COBIT 19. It has also expanded its role in global trade and shored up its position as the world's factory floor. Trying to end-of-the-year COBIT in many ways stronger than it started accelerating its movement toward the center of a global economy, long dominated by the US. While the US and Europe wait for vaccine roll-outs to get fully back on track. China's the only major economy expect you to report growth for 20-20, helping a close it's gap. And these are just excerpts from Wall Street Journal article. The upshot is a world more reliant on China for growth than ever before. For 20-20, China's economy is expected to count for 16.8% of global gross domestic product adjusted for inflation according to forecast by Moody's. That's up from 14% before the US and China entered a trade war. The US is expected to make up 22.2% are virtually unchanged from 2016. The US remains the world's number one economy, okay? At this point, it's still the world's number one cognitive, but the largest consumer market, much higher standard of living, and a currency whose importance dwarfs that at the Chinese shoe worn, America's GDP is 50% greater than China's. Us, it's also grappling with extreme political stress this year and it's expected to grow around three to 4%, but its economy likely won't get back to its 2019 size until the second half of the year. So you don't have to know specific numbers from these kinds of articles. What you want is sorted. The general thing that China, China was the economy that was, that did the best, 20-20 relative to the other ones because they were uncovered more quickly. But the US is, the US economy is still bigger than Srini. All right, those are kinda the two big takeaways from this. We go to the other news. Let's see China. Well, let's do the December inflation required. It's again, it's downloading it. Okay. Okay. So this had come out g o last week and we were trying to get through the materials. So we had seen BY reports for unemployment in December, right? And then that was the next week. We got this report on inflation. Okay, so it says gasoline cost drives the increase in consumer prices at the end of 2020. When they say that they're talking about the CPI. So they're talking about CPI here. Prices were up 1.4% in the year ended December, the smallest increase in five years. So the takeaway from here is that inflation was low. All right, 1.4% isn't low inflation. As we'll learn, the Federal Reserve has traditionally had a target of 2% inflation, and they can't even seem to get inflation up to 2%. So 1.4% is considered low. High, US consumer prices tick, tick tired at the end of 2020, as Americans contended with higher gasoline or food costs. Along with the rise in coronavirus cases across the country. That consumer price index, which measures what consumers pay for everyday items, including food, clothing, and recreational activities, increased a seasonally adjusted 0.4% of December compared with November. Alright? So what they're talking about here is the CPI. When they report it, they always giving the seasonally adjusted amount because there, there's just sometimes prices on average will go up more in certain months just because of the seats and alright. Now gasoline prices rose 8.4% over the month, accounting for more than 60% of the overall increase in prices according to the Labor Department. Alright? Remember how we talked about the volatility of food and energy prices? Here is an example. All right, so a takeaway here is we have an example of volatile energy prices. So from this page to takeaways, conflation was low and gasoline prices, which are very volatile, wasn't big contributor to it. Now how do we deal with that? Well, typically, excluding the often volatile categories of food and energy, so-called core prices were up 0.1% assembler versus November. Now it's interesting that rose a little bit more 1.6% from the year prior, matching economists expectations. Alright? So this just gives you an example how most of these articles will give you the regular inflation rate. And then it will give you the core one is well, all right, and remember those are different because in the core one, they take that consumer basket and they take out all the parts that were energy and food and then recompute it. Okay. So Leonardo, we, for the regular inflation rate, the one that is reported in the headline on the first page, that includes food and energy. Alright? Because that's partnered consumer basket, the one that was reported on the second page called the core, does just a supplemental one that is less volatile. Typically. Good question because I want to make sure everybody is clear on that. Alright? And Purdue News, my couching prevents news. Okay, the other one was ready to unemployment. Employment during curb it. I'm okay. Let me share this. I want to give you an idea of how historical but happened to encode it applies particularly with respect to the unemployment rate. Okay. So I'm so tired. This window wish that it would remember where I wanted something. You, alright, here is, this is from Fred and you use this on one of your homework so, you know, you get all kinds of great data there and they produced the grasp, it can even edit the graphs. Here's the unemployment rate going back to 1948. Ok, couple of things about this graph. The shaded areas are official recessions. And we will talk about those in much more detail in the last 30 of course. One thing you can see here is that the unemployment rate does. Vary over time and that it tends to go up rela, rather sharply during those gray areas which are recession. So the rate goes up relatively rapidly and tends to come down somewhat more slowly. But what this shows you is that what happened with Cove? It was astounding. Okay. It just shot up like a rocket. The unemployment rate hit 14.8%. That was the highest. In the post-World War II period. It was not as high as we saw in the Great Depression. But it was the highest in the post-World War II period. We all thought, you know, when I hit it, basically 10%. And what was the Great Recession that that was so high? It went up another 50% during Cove it relative to the Great Recession. And it went up super, super fast. You could say the others, or they go up pretty fast during this recession. But this one, it just shot up. And so what I'm gonna do is blow this up. On the next page. I saw somebody asking if these are posted, guess they're twisted unless I put nothing. On the next page here. It is just showing from January 2019 through through last December. So the unemployment rate was really low. It will go as gently declining and actually gotten super long, trying to remember, I think it was around 3.5% at that point. And then it rose to 14.8%. Ok. Now it just, it, you know, it rose a little tiny bit here and then just shot up there. But then it didn't stay up. It would start coming down quite rapidly relative to other recessions. So, you know, this was a really, really strong lock downs and people were just completely thrown out of work. Unemployment claims, skyrocket and all those sorts of things. But then people sort of figure out how to work around that some of the lock downs with lifted and that started coming down. But then as you know, we've had a nationwide search again. And so there's been more lockdown. And so the unemployment rate, as, you know, stopped declining or at least it didn't go back, uh, but that that the big surge that we had stopped it from declining at least as of December. And we'll see what happens in the months going forward when we're in this class. Does furlough count. Okay? He said its burrow, that's an agricultural term. I think it's asking about fertilized in a chat. Furloughs typically count for unemployment. The Bureau of Labor Statistics has announcements on its website because trying to even measure the unemployment rate in this unusual time, it's hard to them. And so there are all kinds of details there about how they try to go about measuring the unemployment rate to take into account all of these different things that happen. Okay. Any questions? I realized that the I had told you, I would tell you wanted later on one of the later slides, why it is that I thought 32.9% overestimated the fall in the GDP. And I realize now that I can't find those slides. I just, I'm pretty sure I had them. Let let me show you by just bringing up I guess I just bring up a white board. Actually. Let me insert a blank. Guess. Perfect. Okay. I'm just going to spike. Kind. Let's again. Okay. Here's, here's what happens, the way to think about it. So here is time. So this is going to be quarters. Okay? And this is, say, the first quarter of 2020. And this is the second. And this is the third. And this is toward, okay. So GDP was on average somewhere here in the first quarter of 2020. We're doing pretty well. And then it precipitously. Okay. So there was a percent change there, right? When the Bureau of Economic Analysis reported that percent change, they use their standard procedure of saying, if GDP declined that much each quarters per year, how much would that declined? Who, Ben, Alright, so they're kind of drawing this line. Well, we won't say that zeros there, but Bagehot zeros way down here because obviously hasn't reached 0. But they're extrapolating out. And, and that's where they get their 32.9% decrease. But in fact, it really only felt this much and then it recovered. Okay. So that's why he says so I'm on a lot of policy committees and we were having debates where people would say, let's not do standard thing saved 32.9% because that just as crazy. The amount of goods produced in the economy did not decrease by a third. Alright? It decreased by something like eight to 9%. And then, and then started recovering eating, right? It's, it's the point that I want you to know so you see the numbers, but I will not ask you a question on that. 32.9%.8 because it's a rather complicated. You don't have the tools for that right now, okay. But I just it's just FYI. For now. So don't worry, you don't have to answer anything. Arms was mature. Miss. Any questions, comments about current events, other sorts of things? I have a question about what interest rates are women to know an inflationary. He's because I saw some practice questions on that. Where we had done it. Yeah. So usually I want sets. So the one thing I expect you to first, so that's a good question. Let me let me just erase it. Does everybody have this messy, Graeme? Yeah. Okay. All right. So let's go over that. What was the unemployment rate in December? People can look at the other news thing that anybody remember. Now in December, December 20th, 2020, 0.7? Yes. Hey, that's the one number that I'd like you to precisely know is what was most recent unemployment rate? 6.7%. What do I want you to know about inflation? In the US? Very low. Okay, it's positive. We don't have deflation, but it's low. Suddenly because we can take a little bit quickly about this inflation in Venezuela. How would you characterize that? Hyperinflation? Yes. So very, very high interest rates in the US right now. We haven't talked about them a lot. But what you should know is that they are very low, near 0. So that started this David economy in terms of what you've learned so far. But we will be talking about more aspects of it. Alright? Unemployment rate disseminate the only number that the others you should have a general qualitative understanding of the universe. All right. I think with all the stuff you've had thrown at you, you know, I'm just going to wait till Friday to start because other lecture notes on just because I know you guys are having to study instructions on how to oppose it and whatnot. So and I don't want people to get confused when I start this next material, which I used to have on the first midterm, but I'm not having a midterm. I don't have to worry about those complications right now. Okay. So I will stop the lecture notes for right now and I'm happy to answer questions. Just get some free Bianchi salaries. So, oh, I've gotten an audible question. Suppose we finished the eggs that the midterm early. I don't know how likely that is, but suppose we do. Are we supposed to just sit and do nothing until the entity exam time? Yes. Sorry about, you know, you can always check your answers. Somebody writes, are ours not Bell, I'm twiddling. It's just what we need to do. I believe it's tire here, Tyler. I am. So that's what we're requiring is just sitting twiddling our thumbs yes. Yes. At its B. Why do we need to do that? You remind me it's to prevent any efforts at communicating with fellow students, right? Yes. They continue recording, right? Yep. Basically, you should have a full recording that goes all the way until the end of the exam time, even if you stop working on it halfway through. Alright. Yeah, so it might be boring, but I think as Valerie said, you likely won't finish in time or most people don't finish in time. So hopefully this won't really be too irritating for anyone. At least you're in your room or whatever, rather than sitting in a lecture. Hello, I will flip question. I could could you put up your microphone anti-smoking hearing? You're very weak. Thomas. Hello, that you're trying to ask a question. Could we can't hear you? Okay. You might put it in the champ because here's something with your microphone or ignition. Hello? Yes. Oh, good. Now it's working. Okay. So I have a quick question about the setup. Because in the video, so the TA only really had a webcam which I also only have. And it's like only his face, right? But the picture that you guys need is like the face and also the workspace. But I don't know how to angle my laptop in order to actually do that. Yeah. So does it actually matter or can I just do it the same way that was displayed? So so Tyler's most up to date because you've got this instruction yet. So this has been this is pipe and the biggest issue that students are confused about, and I'm sorry that the instructions are a little bit unclear about it. It's because the instructions were written for a purely written exam. An eye exam is going to be a hybrid and now it's fully online. So it's just a product of us trying to figure out the best solution. Ideally, we'd like to see your workspace while you're working on the exam. So if you can get your camera to be angled such that it looks like the example picture and the instructions. That's what we want. But if you have a laptop that doesn't really permit that, like my laptop has the camera at the bottom of the screen, so there's no way I could get that without just showing the whole keyboard. That's okay too well, understand that. Just make sure at the start of the video, you do like our instructional video showed, which is you lift up your camera, you show around. Make sure you don't have somebody hiding behind you who is going to be spraying the answers in your EHR? Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Just to build on Thomas question, in that case, it's not necessary to have both myself and the team will be shown same time then the whole exam now current. Okay. Just just the initial Look around and shot basic. Yeah, if you can get it though, we'd really appreciate it. And it's yeah. To try to show you at your table if you can, but if it's physically impossible that we understand. Well, yeah, because I was I emailed one the TAs through the Gmail thing earlier where I actually have a tripod that was going to set up and put my phone and then record my screen at the same time. And I was wondering if it was possible to submit both the video from the phone and the video from here into the say I don't think it is. That's that was my yeah. So that's going above and beyond. I think it's better not to it's better to have that bulge is facedown gas and just getting the best video, you can see there's a question, a relevant question in the chat. If you can't do both your face and the table, just do your face. And I think that's, that's easier for most people, at least for me. My physical constraint with my laptop would be I can only show my face. Yeah, so it sounds like a lot of people by showing that this maybe I'll post an announcement, Valerie, just to clarify this point and I'll take some things. Yeah. I kind of had a follow-up question on the instructions. It says to maximize the size of the video window with you in it. But when I was recording myself, it doesn't matter what size the video is because in the recording, you just kinda show up as like a screen in the right-hand corner, like with the zoom recording. So it doesn't really matter how big your video is. So like, does that really matter for us? So I think what that is referring to is you can actually grab that small thumbnail of yourself in the corner and you can drag it a little bit. You can't make it that much bigger. And the majority of your, of your recording or your video is going to be capturing your desktop, your Screenshare. But the instructions are asking you to make that thumbnail slightly bigger so we don't have to squint to see that you're not doing anything suspicious. Right. But in the recording that it doesn't matter what size that we know is because it stays constant in the recording. The thumbnail stays constant and the recording yeah. I'd say it's constantly the same size. So like regardless of what size you change your thumbnail to like the right corner, it's just gonna be like a right corner image like it's pretty large of you just sitting there. I just that's it's like not you changing the size of your thumbnail doesn't affect the recording. That's news to me. Okay. Well, thanks for letting me out. It's not a big jokes. I think the default sizes is more than enough. Yeah, I'll look into that. Maybe just change the instructions so people are confused about it. So just real quick, I'm going to pop out for two minutes. Tyler can continue answering questions about this. I'll come back and wrap it up, close this number. I have to start the 11 o'clock. And and Tyler, you will need 11 o'clock lecture as well, right? Yes. Thank goodness. Alright. Okay. Okay. I actually can I take 1 second? I have misplaced my pen and now I have to write down a bunch of things that you guys are bringing up. Give me 1 second. Anymore questions. Like, when I hear the professor talking about like, how are they were not supposed to finish early. So does that mean that we're most likely not going to have enough time to finish the whole exam. Is that what it's like? Is that the point? That's a good inference. We obviously want you to. So we're actually still writing it and so trying to figure it out because of the basically because of the ease of cheating remotely. One way that we're going to try to prevent that so that on a, students aren't penalize by their classmates cheating. And then they look worse relatively, is we're going to try to make the exam very long. Because along exam is harder to I mean, it's just harder to even cheat to get through right there just so many questions you have to do. So, so as it's running to get the pen. So what we want is the exam to take up the exact amount of time. It's possible we might be making an exam that's overly long. But even if that's the case, everybody's going to be having an overly long exam. And so you will be graded relative to how your peers are doing. So even if you only finished half of the exam and you're feeling like, Oh, now I had a terrible and it's exam. If the rest of the class also only finishes about half of the exam, you're going to be graded relative to that. Yeah, I know. I know you see just like I'm a person who will always struggles with time. So I don't think like that. It's constant if you need them. And I think when you say like if I don't finish after the exam, like the rest of the class is not going to finish off the exam. But I don't think that's like a constant. So if in the ideal world without curve it, we wouldn't have to make things time constrained. Often even at a regular lecture, some students will finish in 20 minutes and others are still hanging around an hour later. What I recommend to you is study, study, study hard because studying really makes it so that you have the tools right at your fingertips and they're more likely to be able, you can access, your brain, can access them more quickly. That's, that's all we can do. I'm going to have to shut down and then we're going to go to be 11 o'clock one. So I guess I won't even sphere at the midterm. That's a weird thing. But that's okay. Great fear by being given to the church.