 No. Good morning everybody. Bring bring the pre-lecture office hours went well. I had a number of students come there, so I will try to open them by 930 at the latest, particularly during exam week. So I'm I try to open those office hours a little bit earlier so that you can ask questions. And then I also have Monday office hours after the 11 AM lecture as I pronounce. So desert. And u n for that one, even though you're in the ten AM lecture, you can just join the zoo for the 11 AM lecture at the end of it and ask questions than my other office hours on Thursday and see all the office hours presenting teaching assistants. Uh, my question. For GDP, imports are always subtracted from the GDP right? Now. It, imports are subtracted from expenditures. So remember that the big thing is there are several ways to measure GDP. One is the production approach, and that was what we talked about before about final goods in sales or value-added. Alright? Then we said that expenditures C plus I plus G plus net exports have to add up to production. It's because of that, that, because if a consumer buys an import, It's going to be counted as consumption, the c part. But obviously that wasn't produced in the US. So we need to subtract it in terms of because it was important. So it's subtracted from expenditures. Okay. Thank you. And then one more for like beginning of the year inventory and the inventory. I'm I don't really know how those. So asked me right after class. Your slack and answer questions means just because I want to get started because right, kind of mature. That's a good question. But it's specified two adaptor class. I'm going to go ahead and share screen. A plugin is installed. I mean, there's always something happens. What, why would it suddenly need a plugin? Ok, well, at least that was quick. Figured out. One reason I'm a little slower. This quarter's just because I don't do things in the right order to do things most efficiently. I mean, one of the things I do is try to minimize what I'm sharing in terms my view because I want to be able to see a chat as well as short cases. So that's what I'm always doing here, looking around and I hope I get faster. This feature, Hawaii would speak itself on the wrong Grant. Okay. Alright, lots are facing. Great. And of course a hum. I forgot to say from current donated through current. Ok. We had done this one. We are finishing that up. And course announcements I helped too do all of this, messing around again. Okay. There. Now I can see the chat. I can see. Okay, so remember that we were talking about the second way of measuring GDP. And the second way was with expenditures. And we had talked about the details of C and I and G and net exports. And then we had gone through five practice problems. Alright, so the next one, so we have now finished adding up expenditure. And now we're going to go to the third way. I'm doing this. And that is measuring GDP and income, right? Every time households sell services to labor, confirms by their services of labor meeting, hiring somebody in pain them. Also capital and land. Firms pay income to households, such as wages for labor, interests, profits for capital, and rent for land. So there are two types of income. The economy. One is what we call labor income, and this includes wages, salaries, income, and the self-employed. So that's labour, what we call labor income, gets the income paid to labor. The other part of the income, the economy is what we call capital income. This includes interest. Oops. Interest, dividends, grant royalties. So what do we mean? They're supposed that our test learn issues bonds to finance the construction of a new Tesla Factory. When it, if I buy those Barnes, It pays me interest. And that interest is part of my capital income. It's not incumbents page me because I worked for Tesla, rather because I was providing funds to Tesla and incident or pay me interest on that. Same with dividends. If I own stock in a company, I own part of the value of that company and part of my capital income would be dividends. Similarly, if I own an apartment complex and rented out, or a commercial building and rented out the rent that's paid me as capital income. And if I write a best selling backhoe textbook, I would get royalties from that textbook and that would be my capital income. Okay? So those are the two types of income in the economy. Now, aggregate expenditures, you remember that's the C plus I plus G plus net exports should equal aggregate income, which labor income plus capital income. And that should equal aggregate production, which we know is GDP. So all of these things should be equal. We can show that with the diagram. Alright, a recap of three ways of expressing GDP. There's the production method, which is the market value of final goods and services. Yes, you can refer to that as aggregate demand, but it's also aggregate supply. So there's a question began the chat. We're not going to, well, we'll use a little bit. Yes, you could think of it as aggregate demand, but it's also outputs. The expenditure method is the C plus I plus government purchases plus net exports. And I put the shapes so that they're approximately the size of their importance. So consumption is 68%. Typically of GDP. Investment is typically 17% of GDP. Government purchases is about 18%, and net exports these days is about minus 2.7%. Might be slightly different. And the Cobra here, but this is during a more normal here that I'm giving you there. You don't have to know these specific numbers, but just remember that almost basically two birds of expenditures as consumption. So dilemma, remember that everything, all the video is recorded so you can always go back and look at the video if you keep, you miss something. On the income part, labor income is about two thirds of all income and capital income is about 1 third of all. So those are the three ways of expressing GDP. One of the benefits, you guys having your video size, I can see when the heads go up and tell when you've finished writing for the most part, but it's only going to be the main piece. But it's a useful thing because it's always hard to gauge how long it takes people to write. Alright, let's do an income practice question. Suppose we have the following data for an economy. I want you to tell me what is labor income? So this is where you're going to have to use some of that information about how expenditures equals income equals GDP to figure out what labor income is. All right, let me open a poll and see where we pull out the pizzeria income. Okay? And so you can answer on the poll once you've figured it out. Okay, 54321. Neat. Okay. So there was quite a dispersion of answers here. So the people who said, let's see, let's do 600. People who said 600 white. Why did you think 600 Was the answer? Maybe that was a wild guess. Well, at least I wouldn't say that majority, but the plurality of students got the right answer barely, which is seven hundred. Seven hundred is the right answer. And here's the reason why income is equal to labor income plus capital income. Okay? We know that capital income is 300. All right, so we go down. We also know that income equals expenditures, which is 600, plus a 150 plus 200 plus 50, which is equal to 1000. Alright? So we know the income is equal to 1000. We know that income. We've figured that out from the expenditures because expenditures equals income and labor plus capital adds up to income. I told you the capitals 300. So that means that labor is 700. Okay? So this question is geared towards you putting together these pieces of, they key of adding a GDP in several different ways. Alright? Alright, we have now finished adding up income. Okay? Now we're gonna move on to a really important part. All of this is important, but here's a, a different take on thinking about GDP and that's distinguish, distinguishing nominal GDP from real GDP. Alright? So, so far everything we've talked about is for nominal GDP. Remember we also called that current dollar GDP means the same thing. Suppose we want to compare the output of the US in 1950 to 2019. Suppose we use current prices to measure nominal GDP. So our sense, we use current prices to measure nominal GDP. A general rise in the average level of prices will increase nominal GDP even if the actual quantities produced have not risen. Okay? And so that's a problem when you're trying to compare GDP at different years. Okay? So let me give you an example. Suppose we are given the following information on production prices in the Shire, alright? So in 2010, they produce 16 mince pies and eight swords. And in 20-20, they produced 18 mince pies and ten sorts. What I say, the average level of prices. It's related to inflation. But as we'll see, inflation, I'm just a question that came up in the chat. Inflation will be the percent change in the average level of prices. So we'll be getting to that shortly. Ok. So what is GDP? I want half of the class. You can decide which. You can do it by the alphabet early in the alphabet. Figure out what GDP, nominal GDP was in 2010. And people later in the alphabet figure out what Nominal GDP was in 2020. And then just tell me what those are. Or write out the formula. K, GDP. And in 2010. 880, yes. Gdp in 202012 and that, yes. Ok. Now notice that this implies a 48% increase in GDP, ok? Because 1000299 divided by 880 minus one. And then if we want percent, we'd multiply that by a 100, that's going to give us 48%. So it looks like there was a really big percent increase in GDP. And there was, for talking about nominal GDP. Everybody had that down. Oops, first calculate. I'd forgotten, I'd heard that. Okay, how so? Here's, here's what we're trying to do. We want to compare aggregate output. Remember, cuz that's what we're trying to measure. Gdp is how much the economy produces. We want to compare the aggregate output over time in a way that excludes price changes. Now how did those prices get in there to start with? Well, remember we said we can't add number of cars plus number of hair cuts. We were valuing things at market prices, which makes sense because that gives you the, that lets you add these different things because you're multiplying them by the price. But then we have this problem that, you know, on average over time prices go up or even if they went down. We're not really measuring the real amount of output that's being produced. So how do we deal with this? Well, pick prices in a particular year, call that the base year. And use prices from that year to calculate the market value of output in every year. That's what we do. That result is called real GDP. So real GDP is just nominal GDP adjusted for inflation. It's taking out the effects of those price increases. Real GDP will always be measured dependent on what base year you choose. Somebody says, What do you do if a product doesn't exist in a previous year? They have armies of PhD economists in the government dealing with that very problem. It's a very big problem and we'll talk about that a little bit in chapter 18 when we talk about the CPI measuring inflation. So, good question, Ari. If the base year's 2015, then we just say it's in $2015. If the base yours in 2020, we say it's in 20, $20 because we're using the prices from that year. Okay, so let's go back to our example. Alright, so let us see what did I do here? Let me see. What is real GDP in 2020 valued in 2010, base year prices. Okay? So let's calculate for you guys are fast, right? Okay, real GDP in 2020, what are we gonna do? We're gonna take the quantity c, real GDP in 2020. We're going to take the quantity of mince pies and 20-20, but multiply them by the price in 2010 quantity. And we're going to do the same thing for swords. We're gonna take those ten sorts and we're going to multiply them by the price in 2010. And that will give us the answer that people are, you put an chat which was 100090. That implies a 24% increase in real GDP from 2010 to 2020. So the way we took out the effect of price changes is we just use prices for one year. Price for each good, but only from one year. So we constructed Real GDP. And now nerds are cool. Huh? How did I get 24, 024%? Look at how I calculated the percent change on the previous slide, and you'll get the same thing. So remember what was Oh, that's a good question. Let me just go back. Done another pixel. Forget how long it takes to go back. Remember, the GDP in 2010 was 880 using 2010 prices. So that means it's also real GDP in 2010. So I compared relative to that, what, 100090 or whatever it was. That's how I got the twenty-four percent. We're going to do a lot more percent later two, okay? The Bureau of Economic Analysis, which is a government statistical agency used to use fixed base year waits for calculate real GDP. Alright? And that's what we'll use for this class is the, the old, the old way of doing things. But I want you to understand if you're looking at actual data, that in that the BA, actually, not even a recent years I got several decades ago, they switch to what's called chain waiting, which is more complicated, but it's less sensitive to the choice of base year. One of the reasons for that switches that the rapid decline and computer prices relative to everything else. At Made results change a lot whenever they change the base year. And it's because computer, all, most other prices were going up, but computer prices were going down. So the weights that you were putting on these different items really varied across the years. Now, here's the actual formula for calculating real GDP growth using chain waiting. Alright? Don't panic. You don't need to know this, alright? But it's actually a simple idea. You can imagine somebody who can't decide which year prices to use to calculate real GDP. This person says, I'm going to use this year's prices, your tea. Okay? Notice the quantities. So they're going to wait however much you produce in year T. And versus how much you produce in year t minus one. You're gonna weight both of those by your tea prices. In contrast, this person over here says, oh, I'm going to wait everything with t minus one prices. Okay? So the quant, those, the Q i t in the numerator and the Q i t minus one, the denominator, that's the same for both of those terms. It's the prices that are different. And the stuff about multiplying these two ways of doing and taking the square root just means you're taking a geometric average. Alright? But you don't need to know this, but when you see chain waiting, that's what they're doing. Okay? Now a side product of calculating real GDP and nominal GDP is something called the GDP deflator. Up. I'm happen. Somebody asked Why do we multiply? I'm happy to answer that question after class. It's a little bit more mathematical than I don't want people to think they need to know it. So arguement, if you want to, I can explain that after class. Alright. So the GDP deflator is, is, it's an index that tracks the average or also known as, as aggregate or general price level. Okay? So that's what the GDP deflator is. One it kind of index that tracks it. It's the one that comes out of looking at real GDP and nominal GDP will see that the CPI is another way to do it, but we'll talk about that in Chapter 18. When I say, I will often use terms by average, aggregate, average price level, aggregate price level, general price level. Those all three mean the same thing. Okay? And you'll see I tell you these different terms because you'll see them in the financial press when we're looking at various articles. Okay? Now, the deflator. Yeah, the deflator is equal to one in the base year. Okay? So whatever base year we use for our prices, the deflator is going to be equal to one there because the deflator is just an index. And then I'm going to put here, CPI is an alternative measure, measure of average price. And as I said, we'll do that in chapter 18. So some notation for this class, Y is going to be real GDP. And by the way, it's also going to be equal to real income equals real expenditure. Because remember, all three of those things add up. P is the average price level. And we have the following relationship. Nominal GDP equals that average price level times real GDP. And we denote the average price level I peak. So price times real GDP equals nominal GDP. Well, you're right on that. Yes. Re, I. There are several ways to calculate inflation. It depends on which index you want to use. One of the ways that they do it is by looking at the percent change in the GDP deflator. Okay? So here is, I didn't do a pool or a Real GDP, nominal GDP and price level. Just to make sure you understand it. In 2090, nominal GDP was in trillions, or it was 21.4 trillion Real GDP in $2012 because that's the way the Bureau of Economic Analysis is reporting it. Now. It was 19.1 trillion. So here's the question. What was the GDP deflator in 2019? Commissioner or pull relaunch polling? Actually, just a sec. I know it looks like I to not load that went up. So why don't you just tell me what you think the answer is. Pyrite. Somebody p equals 1 once you, and it's actually not trillion. One point, one to two. It's basically an index there. And because 21.4 trillion equals 19.1 trillion times 1.12, because that's the price. This is real. This is nominal GDP. Okay? And we're going to be using this a lot when we get to the Keynesian part of the short run part of the class, I have a question why it says Real GDP in 2020? Does it say in 2020? I think she's asking was a real GDP in 20, $12 and oh, yes, because the Bureau of Economic Analysis is using 2012 prices as the base here. So you can use a base year from any year. And if you go to the Bureau of Economic Analysis website, you'll see that all the real GDP right now that they're reporting, they use a 2012 base year for the prices. So that's, that's a very good question. So your definition of real GDP will always need to be followed by, you know, in whatever year dollars. And the same with the deflator. And if I have time late when we do some current events things, I'll try to show that to you. That that's how they report it. Ok. Real GDP and economic well-being. Sometimes people erroneously equate an increase in GDP with an increase in economic well-being. So like standard living. But real GDP was never intended to be a comprehensive measure of well-being, okay? It measures only one thing they can affect well-being, which is how many goods and services your economy produces overall. And then often you divide it by the number of people. There are a number important things that are not counted in GDP that affect people's well-being. Let me list those here quickly. Some of the main ones, one is leisure time. In general. People prefer to have more leisure time and not have to works too hard. Okay? That value of leisure, which most people value, it's not counted in GDP. So one country might have higher GDP than another, but its people are working much harder. And so GDP doesn't give the whole story about what, how, what their well-being is. A second is something we've talked about before. Household production. You might have one economy where say people, more people stay at home and raise their own kids and make their own food. And as we said, that's not counted in GDP. And, but yet people get value from those services. So it might look like that economy has lower well-being than another economy where everybody's out working and paying other people to take care of their kids. But that's actually not a good comparison. Third is what we call underground economic activity. But I mean here is the illegal activity. So if a, if a lot of people say because they're trying to avoid high taxes or something, or actually producing things, but just trading them with the bartering with people, then that would be counted in GDP. Or suppose you had a, a vibrant marijuana production in an economy, but it's illegal. It wouldn't be counted in GDP. So that's not necessarily, so GDP isn't measuring everything. Something else that's particularly important is health and life expectancy. Those really affect people's well-being. To what is your infant mortality rate? How long do you expect to live? How good is your health? Those are counted in GDP directly, and yet they have a huge impact on people's well-being. A fifth is environmental quality. People really value having clean air, clean water, but they're actually not counted in GDP. Alright? So you might have a country that has really raised there, grow. Both they'd done it, caused an environment. We only count the additional goods and services they're producing. We're not subtract when we count GDP. We're not subtracting out the fact that, that their health may be worse because they're breathing in all of the sturdy air. Inequality can have a big effect on well-being. When we look at GDP per capita or per person, we're just saying, on average, how many goods and services there are divided by the number of people. But if there's a lot of inequality, so only a few people get most of the goods and services. Most people would say that well-being isn't as good in that economy as an economy where, where goods and services are distributed more equitably. Ok? So these are important limitations to using GDP as a measure well-being. However, there is a high correlation between GDP and measures of happiness. And one of the reasons, and we're going to talk about this in Chapter 19, is that countries with higher GDP per capita are often healthier countries. Countries with higher GDP per capita often have cleaner air and all those sorts of things. And you can see from this graph, on the horizontal axis is real GDP per capita, and it's all converted to US dollars. On the vertical axis is life satisfaction based on worldwide poles of Happiness. Got this once the Gallup world poll, there are many of these. Each dot is a country. So for example, one of the highest almost every year is dn k, which is Denmark. Alright. Denmark is doing really well for themselves. So even, even with all that cold weather and right now it's pretty dark up there in Denmark. They're still pretty happy. Here's Hong Kong. Now, this is as of 2008, we're going to talk about this. Venezuela was quite a happy country back in 2008. As we'll see now, huge parts of the country is starving and they're terribly unhappy now. So being in one particular place on this graph doesn't mean that you'll stay there. Great. And you could see others here, Ben and is quite low on Real GDP per capita and life satisfaction. So even though it's not a perfect correlation, there's definitely a strong positive relationship between the GDP per capita and a country and how happy it's people are. Alright? Questions on that. Okay, what we are going to do is actually for now, we're going to skip the current events applications just temporarily so that we can start talking about unemployment and those sorts of things and get the, the more challenging material covered so that you can work on your problem sets. But then we will go back to these current events applications once we have done that. Ok. So these are fun, well covered wasn't fun. But we'll, we'll talk about India and we'll talk about drugs and prostitutes. What happens if you add them to GDP in places like Italy? Okay? All right, so we've now finished, Other than the current events, the GDP section of the chapter, this is why I wanted you to watch the unemployment video. So now we're going to talk about measuring unemployment and some key labor market indicators. Alright? So here was from last year, an example, the April unemployment rate rose to record 14.7%. This is when covert hit and a lockdown started. And that was a historic rise and the unemployment rate in terms of how quickly it went up. And we're going to do some problems. Now that you know, the measures of the unemployment rate, this is very similar to what the video was. Rubber I had classification in. The, my current graph is slightly different, but it's still the same. It's still the same idea. And remember, there were relationships among these concepts, between labor force, unemployment rate, labor force participation rate, and something I don't think I mentioned in that earlier video that I made several years ago, the jobless rate is a term used in the financial press for the unemployment rate. When they say jobless rate, it means the same thing as what the textbook says, calls the unemployment rate. Alright, so let's do a practice problem. It's similar to the one that you saw in the video, but there are somewhat different numbers here. So let us calculate the labor force, the unemployment rate, and the labor force participation rate. Alright. So what is the definition, the labor force in terms of the categories that I gave you there. Okay. When 61, Yes, very good. Remember the labor force is the number of people employed plus the number of people unemployed. So that's equal to a 150 plus 11 equals 161. All right. How about the unemployment rate? Will remember that that is the number of people unemployed divided by the labor force. So that is going to be equal to 11 divided by a 161, which is 0.068, which imply 6.8%. So remember, to create it a percent, you simply multiply by a 100. That's what I just did. How about the labor force participation rate? Remember that this is the number of people in the labor force divided by the working age population. Okay? And in particular we use the number. We take people ages 16 and over as the age group of the working age population. But then also the Bureau of Labor Statistics focuses on the civilian, non-institutional population. So, uh, so it takes the military out. And then also non-institutional means that we don't count the people who are in prison or who are in nursing homes. And I think those are institutions. So if we calculate it this way, we take the labor force, which was our first calculation, the a 161. And then we're going to divide it by that population, which is 261. And we get 0.618, which when we multiply by 100, imply 61.8% labor force participation rate. Okay? So the Bureau of Labor Statistics gathers information on all these levels. And this is how it on up the levels of these variables. And then it computes the labor force, computes the unemployment rate. Computes labor force participation rate. Okay? So the unemployment rate is that the number of people unemployed divided by the population. Know, okay? Notice this, it has the labor force in the denominator. Okay, that's an easy mistake to make. The labor force participation rate is saying how many people out of the entire population participates? In that case, you have population in the denominator, but not in for the unemployment rate. Because there you're, you're only interested in looking at people who either have a job or want a job. We're trying to figure out what percent of those people can't find a job. If you haven't already watched the video, please do, because there are particular details about exactly what it means to be unemployed, whether you're unemployed or not, whether you would be counted for that. So so just because I assign this video doesn't mean that this material isn't equally important to the material that I lecture on live. It's just we're trying to make sure that you have the tools to be able to do the homework sets are right. Labor force practice problem too. What were my, you know, I don't know why. Somehow the other polls didn't get low. But that's okay. We can just chat them out or save them out. The unemployment rate equals the number of people. You should get this killing them. What we just did on the previous slide, which is the answer a, B, C, or D. Yeah, see, all right. It's the number unemployed divided by the labor force. Ok, and again, labor force, not population. When you're talking about unemployment. Labor force practice problem three, who from among the following would be classified as unemployed? Brenda Smith, an 18-year-old, full-time college student. Mario forebear, a NHL hockey player at home sick with the flu. Jack Little, a 21-year-old new college graduate, actively looking for his first job. Sarah Lopez, a retired public school teacher. Everybody's got this one. Jack Little? Yes. Because he's actively looking for his first he's actively looking for a job. The full-time college student. Presumably it's not looking for a job and therefore it's not unemployed. If you got a job at your home sick with the flu or coated, you're not considered unemployed. And if you're retired, you're not actively looking for a job, so you're not unemployed. A task is Sarah Lopez part of the labor force? Know? Exactly. Not part of the labor force. I use LF for labor force. That's also the case here. Not part of the labor force or its Mario is counted as employed. Okay. He happens to be homesick. Alright, haha. So this is asking a question a slightly different way based on the information table. How big is the labor force? So your population is 16 as a population 16 and older, this is a million people. Your labor force participation rate is 80% and you're employed. Workers is 720 thousand. Alright, good people. Don't, don't look at the chat while you're trying to do things. Right? That's just looked, I suppose it's hard to see the Screenshare and not the chat, although I suppose you could close down the chat. I know some people are pretty quick. So the correct answer is 800 thousand. Yeah, I I'm going to try to upload the labor force polls if I can find them on my computer. I apologize that I didn't have the pulling so that everybody couldn't have a chance. Alright? So the labor force participation rate, remember, is the number in the labor force. Labor force divided by the population, 16 plus. And we know, we're told that that's 80% or 0.8. So you can easily see that you should take 1 million times 0.8 equals 800 thousand. Alright? Okay, cost of unemployment. There are cerebral costs of unemployment. We generally think of particularly long duration unemployment as being a bad thing. So first of all, there are the economic costs. Unemployed lose income, and society loses output when the labor force is not fully utilized. There are also psychological costs. Lengthy periods of unemployment can lead to low self-esteem, depression, et cetera. And there are social costs, often, not often, sometimes the despair from unemployment may lead to violence and crime. Alright? Because people don't feel valued and or they're, they need income. And so they turned to other methods. Okay, let's talk about three types of unemployment because we're gonna refer back to this when we're in the last third of the course when we talk about short run fluctuations. Okay, so this is from chapter 20, pages 544246 and just just a few pages there. Tonight to your here. Okay. Good. So first of all, there's frictional unemployment. This is short-term unemployment associated with the process of matching workers with jobs. Alright? This is not necessarily considered a bad thing, alright? Because all jobs aren't the same. All people aren't the same. Skills are not the same. It can take awhile to find a really good batch between a worker and a job, alright? And this is called frictional unemployment. This is considered to be a low cost type of unemployment. It tends to be higher when the labor force is younger. K. Why is that? It's because younger people, having a lot of them haven't found the perfect job yet. So they're experimenting. They're saying, oh, let's see how this works for this kind of occupation. And they may say, I'm not sure or this sort of thing. And they say, you know, I'm going to go look for another job. That's perfectly fine. But as they get older, they find a job that's a much better match for them and they'll stick tend to stay in that job longer. Kate. This is also affected by by the amount of unemployment compensation. Because how longer willing to look for a job is going to depend on whether you're getting unemployment compensation, right? If you're desperate, if you're, if you're in a society where there isn't much unemployment compensation or it's not very generous, then you might just take a job even if it isn't perfect because you really need the income. Whereas in another society where there are more generous amounts of unemployment compensation than you may take longer to look for a job to find a better job. Alright, so we're at a time. I will talk about those last two categories. But then that that will in the, the regular material part of chapter 20, sars chapter 17. We will then go to Chapter 18 on Wednesday to make sure that you have those tools. But then we will circle back either Friday. Remember next Monday is a holiday. Either Friday or part of Wednesday to do some of the current events stuff. Okay. Alright. Part-time workers aren't considered unemployed. Good question. Now, part-time workers are not unemployed. Maybe doesn't have all the materials. Sorry for us to complete the homeworks that three homeworks right now we're not yes. Yes, you glib. Okay, cool. I have a good day, professor. Ok. Eat it here, right? Any pegged to professor? Thank you. I'm gonna go ahead and close this one down. Here. I'm going to try to upload the poles for the alarm and who could checking to make sure. I'm right.